"SUBJECTIVE: This 23-year-old white female presents with complaint of allergies. She used to have allergies when she lived in Seattle but she thinks they are worse here. In the past, she has tried Claritin, and Zyrtec. Both worked for short time but then seemed to lose effectiveness. She has used Allegra also. She used that last summer and she began using it again two weeks ago. It does not appear to be working very well. She has used over-the-counter sprays but no prescription nasal sprays. She does have asthma but doest not require daily medication for this and does not think it is flaring up.MEDICATIONS: Her only medication currently is Ortho Tri-Cyclen and the Allegra.ALLERGIES: She has no known medicine allergies.OBJECTIVE:Vitals: Weight was 130 pounds and blood pressure 124/78.HEENT: Her throat was mildly erythematous without exudate. Nasal mucosa was erythematous and swollen. Only clear drainage was seen. TMs were clear.Neck: Supple without adenopathy.Lungs: Clear.ASSESSMENT: Allergic rhinitis.PLAN:1. She will try Zyrtec instead of Allegra again. Another option will be to use loratadine. She does not think she has prescription coverage so that might be cheaper.2. Samples of Nasonex two sprays in each nostril given for three weeks. A prescription was written as well."
"HISTORY: A 34-year-old male presents today self-referred at the recommendation of Emergency Room physicians and his nephrologist to pursue further allergy evaluation and treatment. Please refer to chart for history and physical, as well as the medical records regarding his allergic reaction treatment at ABC Medical Center for further details and studies. In summary, the patient had an acute event of perioral swelling, etiology uncertain, occurring on 05/03/2008 requiring transfer from ABC Medical Center to XYZ Medical Center due to a history of renal failure requiring dialysis and he was admitted and treated and felt that his allergy reaction was to Keflex, which was being used to treat a skin cellulitis dialysis shunt infection. In summary, the patient states he has some problems with tolerating grass allergies, environmental and inhalant allergies occasionally, but has never had anaphylactic or angioedema reactions. He currently is not taking any medication for allergies. He is taking atenolol for blood pressure control. No further problems have been noted upon his discharge and treatment, which included corticosteroid therapy and antihistamine therapy and monitoring.PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: History of urticaria, history of renal failure with hypertension possible source of renal failure, history of dialysis times 2 years and a history of hypertension.PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: PermCath insertion times 3 and peritoneal dialysis.FAMILY HISTORY: Strong for heart disease, carcinoma, and a history of food allergies, and there is also a history of hypertension.CURRENT MEDICATIONS: Atenolol, sodium bicarbonate, Lovaza, and Dialyvite.ALLERGIES: Heparin causing thrombocytopenia.SOCIAL HISTORY: Denies tobacco or alcohol use.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: VITAL SIGNS: Age 34, blood pressure 128/78, pulse 70, temperature is 97.8, weight is 207 pounds, and height is 5 feet 7 inches.GENERAL: The patient is healthy appearing; alert and oriented to person, place and time; responds appropriately; in no acute distress.HEAD: Normocephalic. No masses or lesions noted.FACE: No facial tenderness or asymmetry noted.EYES: Pupils are equal, round and reactive to light and accommodation bilaterally. Extraocular movements are intact bilaterally.EARS: The tympanic membranes are intact bilaterally with a good light reflex. The external auditory canals are clear with no lesions or masses noted. Weber and Rinne tests are within normal limits.NOSE: The nasal cavities are patent bilaterally. The nasal septum is midline. There are no nasal discharges. No masses or lesions noted.THROAT: The oral mucosa appears healthy. Dental hygiene is maintained well. No oropharyngeal masses or lesions noted. No postnasal drip noted.NECK: The neck is supple with no adenopathy or masses palpated. The trachea is midline. The thyroid gland is of normal size with no nodules.NEUROLOGIC: Facial nerve is intact bilaterally. The remaining cranial nerves are intact without focal deficit.LUNGS: Clear to auscultation bilaterally. No wheeze noted.HEART: Regular rate and rhythm. No murmur noted.IMPRESSION: 1. Acute allergic reaction, etiology uncertain, however, suspicious for Keflex.2. Renal failure requiring dialysis.3. Hypertension.RECOMMENDATIONS: RAST allergy testing for both food and environmental allergies was performed, and we will get the results back to the patient with further recommendations to follow. If there is any specific food or inhalant allergen that is found to be quite high on the sensitivity scale, we would probably recommend the patient to avoid the offending agent to hold off on any further reactions. At this point, I would recommend the patient stopping any further use of cephalosporin antibiotics, which may be the cause of his allergic reaction, and I would consider this an allergy. Being on atenolol, the patient has a more difficult time treating acute anaphylaxis, but I do think this is medically necessary at this time and hopefully we can find specific causes for his allergic reactions. An EpiPen was also prescribed in the event of acute angioedema or allergic reaction or sensation of impending allergic reaction and he is aware he needs to proceed directly to the emergency room for further evaluation and treatment recommendations after administration of an EpiPen."
"CHIEF COMPLAINT: This 5-year-old male presents to Children's Hospital Emergency Department by the mother with \"\"have asthma.\"\" Mother states he has been wheezing and coughing. They saw their primary medical doctor. He was evaluated at the clinic, given the breathing treatment and discharged home, was not having asthma, prescribed prednisone and an antibiotic. They told to go to the ER if he got worse. He has had some vomiting and some abdominal pain. His peak flows on the morning are normal at 150, but in the morning, they were down to 100 and subsequently decreased to 75 over the course of the day.PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Asthma with his last admission in 07/2007. Also inclusive of frequent pneumonia by report.IMMUNIZATIONS: Up-to-date.ALLERGIES: Denied.MEDICATIONS: Advair, Nasonex, Xopenex, Zicam, Zithromax, prednisone, and albuterol.PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Denied.SOCIAL HISTORY: Lives at home, here in the ED with the mother and there is no smoking in the home.FAMILY HISTORY: No noted exposures.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Documented on the template. Systems reviewed on the template.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:VITAL SIGNS: Temperature 98.7, pulse 105, respiration is 28, blood pressure 112/65, and weight of 16.5 kg. Oxygen saturation low at 91% on room air.GENERAL: This is a well-developed male who is cooperative, alert, active with oxygen by facemask.HEENT: Head is atraumatic and normocephalic. Pupils are equal, round, and reactive to light. Extraocular motions are intact and conjugate. Clear TMs, nose, and oropharynx.NECK: Supple. Full painless nontender range of motion.CHEST: Tight wheezing and retractions heard bilaterally.HEART: Regular without rubs or murmurs.ABDOMEN: Soft, nontender. No masses. No hepatosplenomegaly.GENITALIA: Male genitalia is present on a visual examination.SKIN: No significant bruising, lesions or rash.EXTREMITIES: Moves all extremities without difficulty, nontender. No deformity.NEUROLOGIC: Symmetric face, cooperative, and age appropriate.MEDICAL DECISION MAKING: The differential entertained on this patient includes reactive airways disease, viral syndrome, and foreign body pneumonia. He is evaluated in the emergency department with continuous high-dose albuterol, Decadron by mouth, pulse oximetry, and close observation. Chest x-ray reveals bronchial thickening, otherwise no definite infiltrate. She is further treated in the emergency department with continued breathing treatments. At 0048 hours, he has continued tight wheezes with saturations 99%, but ED sats are 92% with coughing spells. Based on the above, the hospitalist was consulted and accepts this patient for admission to the hospital with the working diagnosis of respiratory distress and asthma."
"HISTORY: I had the pleasure of meeting and evaluating the patient referred today for evaluation and treatment of chronic sinusitis. As you are well aware, she is a pleasant 50-year-old female who states she started having severe sinusitis about two to three months ago with facial discomfort, nasal congestion, eye pain, and postnasal drip symptoms. She states she really has sinus problems, but this infection has been rather severe and she notes she has not had much improvement with antibiotics. She had a CT of her paranasal sinuses identifying mild mucosal thickening of right paranasal sinuses with occlusion of the ostiomeatal complex on the right and turbinate hypertrophy was also noted when I reviewed the films and there is some minimal nasal septum deviation to the left. She currently is not taking any medication for her sinuses. She also has noted that she is having some problems with her balance and possible hearing loss or at least ear popping and fullness. Her audiogram today demonstrated mild high frequency sensorineural hearing loss, normal tympanometry, and normal speech discrimination. She has tried topical nasal corticosteroid therapy without much improvement. She tried Allegra without much improvement and she believes the Allegra may have caused problems with balance to worsen. She notes her dizziness to be much worse if she does quick positional changes such as head turning or sudden movements, no ear fullness, pressure, humming, buzzing or roaring noted in her ears. She denies any previous history of sinus surgery or nasal injury. She believes she has some degree of allergy symptoms.PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Seasonal allergies, possible food allergies, chronic sinusitis, hypertension and history of weight change. She is currently 180 pounds.PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Lower extremity vein stripping, tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy.FAMILY HISTORY: Strong for heart disease and alcoholism.CURRENT MEDICATIONS: DynaCirc.ALLERGIES: Egg-based products cause hives.SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient used to smoke cigarettes for about 20 years, one-half pack a day. She currently does not, which was encouraged to continue. She rarely drinks any alcohol-containing beverages.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: VITAL SIGNS: Age 50, blood pressure is 136/74, pulse 84, temperature is 98.4, weight is 180 pounds, and height is 5 feet 3 inches.GENERAL: The patient is healthy appearing; alert and oriented to person, place and time; responds appropriately; in no acute distress.HEAD: Normocephalic. No masses or lesions noted.FACE: No facial tenderness or asymmetry noted.EYES: Pupils are equal, round and reactive to light and accommodation bilaterally. Extraocular movements are intact bilaterally. No nystagmus.EARS: During Hallpike examination, the patient did not become dizzy until she would be placed back into sitting in the upright position. No nystagmus was appreciated; however, the patient did subjectively report dizziness, which was repeated twice. No evidence of any orthostatic hypotension was noted during the exam. Tympanic membranes were noted to be intact. No signs of middle ear effusion or ear canal inflammation.NOSE: The patient appears congested. Turbinate hypertrophy is noted. There are no signs of any acute sinusitis. Septum is midline, slightly deviated to the left.THROAT: There is clear postnasal drip. Oral hygiene is good. No masses or lesions noted. Both vocal cords move well to midline.NECK: The neck is supple with no adenopathy or masses palpated. The trachea is midline. The thyroid gland is of normal size with no nodules.LUNGS: Clear to auscultation bilaterally. No wheeze noted.HEART: Regular rate and rhythm. No murmur noted.NEUROLOGIC: Facial nerve is intact bilaterally. The remaining cranial nerves are intact without focal deficit.PROCEDURE: Fiberoptic nasopharyngoscopy identifying turbinate hypertrophy and nasal septum deviation to the left, more significant posteriorly.IMPRESSION: 1. Probable increasing problems with allergic rhinitis and chronic sinusitis, both contributing to the patient's symptoms.2. Subjective dizziness, etiology uncertain; however, consider positional vertigo versus vestibular neuronitis as possible ear causes of dizziness, cannot rule out systemic, central or medication or causes at this time.3. Inferior turbinate hypertrophy.4. Nasal septum deformity.RECOMMENDATIONS: An ENG was ordered to evaluate vestibular function. She was placed on Veramyst nasal spray two sprays each nostril daily and even twice daily if symptoms are worsening. A Medrol Dosepak was prescribed as directed. The patient was given instruction on use of nasal saline irrigation to be used twice daily and Clarinex 5 mg daily was recommended. After the patients' ENG examination, we will see the patient back for further evaluation and treatment recommendations. In light of the patient's atypical dizziness symptoms, I cannot rule out other pathology at this time, and I informed her if there are any acute changes or problems with regards to her balance or any other acute changes, which she attributes associated with her dizziness, she most likely should pursue an emergent visit to the emergency room.Thank you for allowing me to participate with the care of your patient."
"HISTORY: A 55-year-old female presents self-referred for the possibility of evaluation and treatment of allergies, diminished taste, xerostomia, gastroesophageal reflux disease, possible food allergies, chronic GI irritability, asthma, and environmental inhalant allergies. Please refer to chart for history and physical and review of systems and detailed medical history.IMPRESSION: 1. Chronic glossitis/xerostomia/probable environmental inhalant allergies/probable food allergies/history of asthma.2. History of fibromyalgia.3. History of peptic ulcer disease, history of gastritis, history of gastroesophageal disease.4. History of chronic fatigue.5. History of hypothyroidism.6. History of depression.7. History of dysphagia.RECOMMENDATIONS: RAST allergy testing was ordered for food allergy evaluation. The patient had previous allergy testing done less than one year ago iby Dr. X, which was requested. The patient will follow up after RAST allergy testing for further treatment recommendations. At this point, no changes in her medication were prescribed until her followup visit."
"SUBJECTIVE: This is a 42-year-old white female who comes in today for a complete physical and follow up on asthma. She says her asthma has been worse over the last three months. She has been using her inhaler daily. Her allergies seem to be a little bit worse as well. Her husband has been hauling corn and this seems to aggravate things. She has not been taking Allegra daily but when she does take it, it seems to help somewhat. She has not been taking her Flonase which has helped her in the past. She also notes that in the past she was on Advair but she got some vaginal irritation with that.She had been noticing increasing symptoms of irritability and PMS around her menstrual cycle. She has been more impatient around that time. Says otherwise her mood is normal during the rest of the month. It usually is worse the week before her cycle and improves the day her menstrual cycle starts. Menses have been regular but somewhat shorter than in the past. Occasionally she will get some spotting after her cycles. She denies any hot flashes or night sweats with this. In reviewing the chart it is noted that she did have 3+ blood with what appeared to be a urinary tract infection previously. Her urine has not been rechecked. She recently had lab work and cholesterol drawn for a life insurance application and is going to send me those results when available.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: As above. No fevers, no headaches, no shortness of breath currently. No chest pain or tightness. No abdominal pain, no heartburn, no constipation, diarrhea or dysuria. Occasional stress incontinence. No muscle or joint pain. No concerns about her skin. No polyphagia, polydipsia or polyuria.PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for asthma, allergic rhinitis and cervical dysplasia.SOCIAL HISTORY: She is married. She is a nonsmoker.MEDICATIONS: Proventil and Allegra.ALLERGIES: Sulfa.OBJECTIVE:Vital signs: Her weight is 151 pounds. Blood pressure is 110/60. Pulse is 72. Temperature is 97.1 degrees. Respirations are 20.General: This is a well-developed, well-nourished 42-year-old white female, alert and oriented in no acute distress. Affect is appropriate and is pleasant.HEENT: Normocephalic, atraumatic. Tympanic membranes are clear. Conjunctivae are clear. Pupils are equal, round and reactive to light. Nares without turbinate edema. Oropharynx is nonerythematous.Neck: Supple without lymphadenopathy, thyromegaly, carotid bruit or JVD.Chest: Clear to auscultation bilaterally.Cardiovascular: Regular rate and rhythm without murmur.Abdomen: Soft, nontender, nondistended. Normoactive bowel sounds. No masses or organomegaly to palpation.Extremities: Without cyanosis or edema.Skin: Without abnormalities.Breasts: Normal symmetrical breasts without dimpling or retraction. No nipple discharge. No masses or lesions to palpation. No axillary masses or lymphadenopathy.Genitourinary: Normal external genitalia. The walls of the vaginal vault are visualized with normal pink rugae with no lesions noted. Cervix is visualized without lesion. She has a moderate amount of thick white/yellow vaginal discharge in the vaginal vault. No cervical motion tenderness. No adnexal tenderness or fullness.ASSESSMENT/PLAN:1. Asthma. Seems to be worse than in the past. She is just using her Proventil inhaler but is using it daily. We will add Flovent 44 mcg two puffs p.o. b.i.d. May need to increase the dose. She did get some vaginal irritation with Advair in the past but she is willing to retry that if it is necessary. May also need to consider Singulair. She is to call me if she is not improving. If her shortness of breath worsens she is to call me or go into the emergency department. We will plan on following up for reevaluation in one month.2. Allergic rhinitis. We will plan on restarting Allegra and Flonase daily for the time being.3. Premenstrual dysphoric disorder. She may have some perimenopausal symptoms. We will start her on fluoxetine 20 mg one tablet p.o. q.d.4. Hematuria. Likely this is secondary to urinary tract infection but we will repeat a UA to document clearing. She does have some frequent dysuria but is not having it currently.5. Cervical dysplasia. Pap smear is taken. We will notify the patient of results. If normal we will go back to yearly Pap smear. She is scheduled for screening mammogram and instructed on monthly self-breast exam techniques. Recommend she get 1200 mg of calcium and 400 U of vitamin D a day."
"ADMITTING DIAGNOSIS: Kawasaki disease.DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: Kawasaki disease, resolving.HOSPITAL COURSE: This is a 14-month-old baby boy Caucasian who came in with presumptive diagnosis of Kawasaki with fever for more than 5 days and conjunctivitis, mild arthritis with edema, rash, resolving and with elevated neutrophils and thrombocytosis, elevated CRP and ESR. When he was sent to the hospital, he had a fever of 102. Subsequently, the patient was evaluated and based on the criteria, he was started on high dose of aspirin and IVIG. Echocardiogram was also done, which was negative. IVIG was done x1, and between 12 hours of IVIG, he spiked fever again; it was repeated twice, and then after second IVIG, he did not spike any more fever. Today, his fever and his rash have completely resolved. He does not have any conjunctivitis and no redness of mucous membranes. He is more calm and quite and taking good p.o.; so with a very close followup and a cardiac followup, he will be sent home.DISCHARGE ACTIVITIES: Ad-lib.DISCHARGE DIET: PO ad-lib.DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Aspirin high dose 340 mg q.6h. for 1 day and then aspirin low dose 40 mg q.d. for 14 days and then Prevacid also to prevent his GI from aspirin 15 mg p.o. once a day. He will be followed by his primary doctor in 2 to 3 days. Cardiology for echo followup in 4 to 6 weeks and instructed not to give any vaccine in less than 11 months because of IVIG, all the live virus vaccine, and if he gets any rashes, any fevers, should go to primary care doctor as soon as possible."
"EXTERNAL EXAMINATION - SUMMARYThe body is presented in a black body bag. At the time of examination, the body is clothed in a long-sleeved red cotton thermal shirt, khaki twill cargo pants, and one black shoe.The body is that of a normally developed, well nourished Caucasian female measuring 63 inches in length, weighing 114 pounds, and appearing generally consistent with the stated age of thirty-five years. The body is cold and unembalmed with declining rigor. Pronounced unblanching lividity is present on the posterior of the body in the regions of the feet; the upper thighs, particularly on the right side; the lower back, particularly on the right side; the right arm; and the neck.The scalp is covered by long (16 inches) brown hair. The body hair is female and average. The skull is symmetric and evidences extensive trauma in the occipital region. The eyes are open and the irises are blue. Pupils are asymmetrically dilated. The teeth are natural and well maintained. The anterior chest is of normal contour and is intact. The breasts are female and contain no palpable masses. The abdomen is flat and the pelvis is intact. The external genitalia are female and unremarkable. The back is symmetrical and intact. The upper and lower extremities are symmetric, normally developed and intact. The hands and nails are clean and evidence no injury.There are no residual scars, markings or tattoos.INTERNAL EXAMINATION - SUMMARYCENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM: The brain weighs 1,303 grams and is within normal limits. SKELETAL SYSTEM: Subdural hematoma and comminuted fractures of the occipital bone are observed. Numerous bone fragments from the fractures penetrated the brain tissue. RESPIRATORY SYSTEM--THROAT STRUCTURES: The oral cavity shows no lesions. The mucosa is intact and there are no injuries to the lips, teeth or gums. There is no obstruction of the airway. The mucosa of the epiglottis, glottis, piriform sinuses, trachea and major bronchi are anatomic. No injuries are seen and there are no mucosal lesions. The lungs weigh: right, 355 grams; left 362 grams. The lungs are unremarkable. CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM: The heart weighs 253 grams, and has a normal size and configuration. No evidence of atherosclerosis is present. GASTROINTESTINAL SYSTEM: The mucosa and wall of the esophagus are intact and gray-pink, without lesions or injuries. The gastric mucosa is intact and pink without injury. Approximately 125 ml of partially digested semisolid food is found in the stomach. The mucosa of the duodenum, jejunum, ileum, colon and rectum are intact. URINARY SYSTEM: The kidneys weigh: left, 115 grams; right, 113 grams. The kidneys are anatomic in size, shape and location and are without lesions. FEMALE GENITAL SYSTEM: The structures are within normal limits. Examination of the pelvic area indicates the victim had not given birth and was not pregnant at the time of death. Vaginal fluid samples are removed for analysis. DESCRIPTION OF INJURIES - SUMMARYBlunt force traumatic injury with multiple cranial fractures resulting in craniocerebral injury. Wound measures approximately 4 inches high x 5 1/2 inches wide. Subdural hematoma and comminuted fractures of the occipital bone are observed. Numerous bone fragments from the fractures penetrated the brain tissue. Depths of penetration range from 1/2-inch to 3 inches. Injury appears to have resulted from a single blow administered to the posterior of the head, delivered at an approximate 90ยบ angle to the occipital bone.LABORATORY DATACEREBROSPINAL FLUID CULTURE AND SENSITIVITY:Gram stain: UnremarkableCulture: No growth after 72 hoursCEREBROSPINAL FLUID BACTERIAL ANTIGENS:Hemophilus influenza B: NegativeStreptococcus pneumoniae: NegativeN. Meningitidis: NegativeNeiserria meningitidis B/E. Coli K1: Negative PRELIMINARY TOXICOLOGICAL RESULTS:BLOOD - ETHANOL - NEG BLOOD - CANNABINOIDS-ETS - INCBLOOD - COCAINE-ETS - INCBLOOD - OPIATES-ETS - INCBLOOD - AMPHETAMINE-ETS - INCBLOOD - BARBITURATE -ETS - INCBLOOD - BENZODIAZEPINE-ETS - INCBLOOD - METHADONE-ETS - INCBLOOD - PCP-ETS - INCBLOOD - CARBON MONOXIDE - NEGUrine Drugs: Initial test results inconclusive. Further tests pending. EVIDENCE COLLECTED1. Samples of Blood (type O+), Urine, Bile, and Tissue (heart, lung, brain, kidney, liver, spleen). 2. Thirteen autopsy photographs. 3. Two postmortem x-rays. Clothing transferred to ABC Lab for further analysis. OPINION:TIME OF DEATH: Body temperature, rigor and livor mortis, stomach contents and witness statements approximate the time of death between 9:30 p.m. on 9/17/05 and 12:00 a.m. on 9/18/05. CAUSE OF DEATH: Blunt force cranial trauma. MANNER OF DEATH: Homicide"
"CLOTHING: The body is clad in a light green hospital gown, which is intact, dry and clean. There is no jewelry present.EXTERNAL EXAMINATION: The body is that of a well-developed, well-nourished white woman appearing the offered age of 39 years. The body measures 71 inches and weighs 178 pounds.The unembalmed body is well preserved and cool to touch due to refrigeration. Rigor mortis is fully developed in the major muscle groups. Livor mortis is fixed and purple posteriorly except over pressure points. However, during initial examination in the emergency room, there was no rigor and lividity was at a minimum and unfixed. The skin is intact and shows no evidence of trauma except for medical intervention. The scalp hair is blond and measures up to 5 inches in length in the frontal area and up to 19 inches in length in the back and on top of the head. There are multiple blonde hair extensions including several pink strands attached to the natural hair, which shows light brown roots. The irides are hazel and the pupils are equal, each measuring 0.5 centimeter in diameter. The corneae are clear and the sclerae and conjunctivae are free of petechiae. The nasal bones are intact by palpation. The nares are patent and contain no foreign matter. There is a 3-millimeter raised nodule on the right side of the nose. The natural teeth are in good condition. The frenula are intact. The oral mucosa and tongue are free of injuries. The external ears have no injuries. There are bilateral earlobe piercings; no earring or jewelry were present. There are no earlobe creases.The neck is symmetrical and shows no masses or injuries. The trachea is in the midline. The shoulders are symmetrical and are free of scars.The chest is symmetrical and shows no evidence of injury. There were bilateral breasts with asymmetry of the left breast due to scarring. The flat abdomen has no injuries. There are piercings above and below the umbilicus. The back is symmetrical. The buttocks have inconspicuous small scars, bilaterally. There is a flat, round scar on the lower aspect of the left buttock approximately 1/2 inch in diameter.The genitalia are those of a normally developed adult woman. There is no evidence of injury. The anus is unremarkable.The upper extremities are symmetrical and have no injuries. The fingernails are long and clean. There is a linear 1/2 inch scar on the anterior right forearm. Two parallel linear scars measuring 1 inch and 2 inches are on the anterior surface of the left forearm. The lower extremities are symmetrical. The toenails are short and clean. There is no edema of the legs or ankles. There is no abnormal motion of the neck, the shoulders, the elbows, the wrists, the fingers, the hips and ankles. There is no bony crepitus or cutaneous crepitus present.EVIDENCE OF INJURY: A dissection of the posterior neck and upper back show a 2-1/4 x 2-3/4 inch reddish, recent contusion of the subcutaneous and superficial muscle layer of the left posterior shoulder. A recent, reddish, 1-3/4 x 1-1/2 inch reddish contusion is present on the right posterior shoulder involving the superficial muscular layer.EVIDENCE OF RECENT MEDICAL TREATMENT: A properly positioned size 8 endotracheal tube retained by a Thomas clamp is present at the mouth with the marker 22 at the anterior teeth. Electrocardiogram pads are on the anterior chest in the following order: two on the right anterior shoulder, two on the left anterior shoulder, one on the upper anterior left arm, one each on the anterior side, one each on the anterior leg.Two defibrillator pads are present: one to the right of the midline, above the right breast, and one to the left of the midline, below the left breast.There is intravenous line placement at the right anterior neck with hemorrhage into the anterior strap muscles of the neck. One recent needle puncture mark is in the right antecubital fossa and two recent needle puncture marks are at the anterior left elbow with surrounding ecchymoses. There is one recent needle puncture into the medial one-third of the left anterior forearm with surrounding ecchymosis. A recent needle puncture mark is at the left anterior wrist with surrounding reddish ecchymosis, 1 inch in diameter.OTHER IDENTIFYING FEATURES: There are multiple scars and tattoos on the body.SCARS: A 3/4 x 1/2 inch flat scar is on the upper inner aspect of the right breast quadrant. A 1/2 x 3/8-inch scar is on the medial aspect of the left nipple. There are circular scars adjacent to both areolae. The right inframammary skin has a linear transverse 3/4 inch remote \"\"chest tube\"\" scar. There were bilateral inframammary and transverse linear 3-3/4 inch scars compatible with left and right mammoplasty with breast implants. There are circular scars surrounding piercings above and below the umbilicus. A flat 3/8 inch in diameter scar is present on the middle third of the anterior surface of the right thigh. Lateral to this scar is a 1/2 inch in diameter flat scar. There are several scattered small inconspicuous scars on both buttocks. There is a cluster of multiple, parallel, linear, well-healed scars on the anterior and lateral aspects of the right leg covered by a tattoo.TATTOOS: There is a pair of red lips in the right lower abdominal quadrant.Two red cherries are on the right mid pelvis.A \"\"Playboy Bunny\"\" is on the left anterior mid pelvis.The words \"\"Daniel\"\" and \"\"Papas\"\" are on the mid anterior pelvis region.A mixed tattoo on the right lower leg and ankle represents: Christ's head; Our Lady ofGuadalupe; the Holy Bible; the naked torso of a woman; the smiling face of Marilyn Monroe; across; a heart and shooting flames.A mermaid on a flower bed with a pair of lips underneath it laying across the lower back.INTERNAL EXAMINATION: The body was opened with the usual Y incision. The breast tissues, when incised, revealed bilateral implants, each containing 700ml of clear fluid. The implants were surrounded by a thick connective tissue capsule with a thick yellow fluid. The content of each capsule was collected for bacteriological cultures.BODY CAVITIES: The muscles of the chest and abdominal wall are normal in color and consistency. The lungs are neither hyperinflated nor atelectatic when the pleural cavities are opened. The right lung shows adherence to the parietal pleura and to the diaphragm interiorly. The ribs, sternum and spine exhibit no fractures. The right and left pleural cavities have no free fluid. There are extensive right pleural fibrous adhesions. The mediastinum is in the midline. The pericardial sac has a normal amount of clear yellow fluid. The diaphragm has no abnormality. The subcutaneous abdominal fat measures 3 centimeters in thickness at the umbilicus. The abdominal cavity is lined with glistening serosa and has no collections of free fluid. The organs are normally situated. The mesentery and omentum are unremarkable.NECK: The soft tissues and the strap muscles of the neck, aside from the previously described focal hemorrhages, exhibit no abnormalities. The hyoid bone and the cartilages of the larynx and thyroid are intact and show no evidence of injury. The larynx and trachea are lined by smooth pink-tan mucosa, are patent and contain no foreign matter. There is a focal area of reddish hyperemia at the carina associated with the endotracheal tube. The epiglottis and vocal cords are unremarkable. The cervical vertebral column is intact. The carotid arteries and jugular veins are unremarkable.CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM: The heart and great vessels contain dark red liquid blood and little postmortem clots. The heart weighs 305 grams. The epicardial surface has a normal amount of glistening, yellow adipose tissue. The coronary arteries are free of atherosclerosis. The cut surfaces of the brown myocardium show no evidence of hemorrhage or necrosis.The pulmonary trunk and arteries are opened in situ and there is no evidence of thromboemboli. The intimal surface of the aorta is smooth with a few scattered yellow atheromata. The ostia of the major branches are of normal distribution and dimension. The inferior vena cava and tributaries have no antemortem clots (See attached cardiopathology report for additional details).RESPIRATORY SYSTEM: The lungs weigh 550 grams and 500 grams, right and left, respectively. There is a small amount of subpleural anthracotic pigment within all the lobes. The pleural surfaces are free of exudates; right-sided pleural adhesions have been described above. The trachea and bronchi have smooth tan epithelium. The cut surfaces of the lungs are red-pink and have mild edema. The lung parenchyma is of the usual consistency and shows no evidence of neoplasm, consolidation, thromboemboli, fibrosis or calcification.HEPATOBILIARY SYSTEM: The liver weighs 2550 grams. The liver edge is somewhat blunted. The capsule is intact. The cut surfaces are red-brown and of normal consistency. There are no focal lesions. The gallbladder contains 15 milliliters of dark green bile. There are no stones. The mucosa is unremarkable. The large bile ducts are patent and non-dilated.HEMOLYMPHATIC SYSTEM: The thymus is not identified. The spleen weighs 310 grams. The capsule is shiny, smooth and intact. The cut surfaces are firm and moderately congested. The lymphoid tissue in the spleen is within a normal range. The lymph nodes throughout the body are not enlarged.GASTROINTESTINAL SYSTEM: The tongue shows a small focus of submucosal hemorrhage near the tip. The esophagus is empty and the mucosa is unremarkable. The stomach contains an estimated 30 milliliters of thick sanguinous fluid. The gastric mucosa shows no evidence or ulceration. There is a mild flattening of the rugal pattern within the antrum with intense hyperemia. The duodenum contains bile-stained thick tan fluid. The jejunum, ileum, and the colon contain yellowish fluid with a thick, cloudy, particulate matter. There is no major alteration to internal and external inspection and palpation except for a yellowish/white shiny discoloration of the mucosa. The vermiform appendix is identified. The pancreas is tan, lobulated and shows no neoplasia, calcification or hemorrhage.There are no intraluminal masses or pseudomenbrane.UROGENITAL SYSTEM: The kidneys are of similar size and shape and weigh 160 grams and 190 grams, right and left, respectively. The capsules are intact and strip with ease. The cortical surfaces are purplish, congested and mildly granular. The cut surfaces reveal a well-defined corticomedullary junction. There are no structural abnormalities of the medullae, calyces or pelves. The ureters are slender and patent. The urinary bladder has approximately 0.5 milliliters of cloudy yellow urine. The mucosa is unremarkable. The vagina is normally wrinkled and contains no foreign matter. The uterus shows a reddish endometrial lining with no evidence of intra-uterine pregnancy. The fallopian tubes and ovaries are within normal limits.ENDOCRINE SYSTEM: The adrenal glands have a normal configuration with the golden yellow cortices well demarcated from the underlying medullae and there is no evidence of hemorrhage. The thyroid gland is mildly fibrotic and has focally pale gray parenchyma on sectioning. The pituitary gland is within normal limits. MUSCULOSKELETAL SYSTEM: Postmortem radiographs of the body show no acute, healed or healing fractures of the head, the neck, the appendicular skeleton or the axial skeleton. The muscles are normally formed. Dissection of the right anterior thigh in the aforementioned areas of scarring revealed subcutaneous fibrosis and multiple small cysts containing turbid, yellow fluid. The cyst-like structures range in sizes from 0.5 centimeters to 1.2 centimeters in diameter. The cyst associated with the most medial scar is 8 millimeter in diameter and has a calcified wall and the cyst associated with the more lateral scar measures 1 centimeter in diameter.Dissection of the buttocks reveals diffuse subcutaneous scarring and fat necrosis of the adipose tissue bilaterally with three subcutaneous cystic structures containing light yellow, clear, thick liquid within the left buttock. The right buttock contains similar cysts with similar content, with at least one cyst wall being calcified.The left and right buttocks have foci of recent, hemorrhagic tracts within the subcutaneous adipose tissue and the superficial and deep muscular layers extending from the skin surface.There is a deep-seated 3 x 2.5 x 2 centimeter abscess within the musculature of the left buttock with a creamy, yellow-green pus on sectioning. A recent, hemorrhagic, needle tract extends into the abscess wall from the skin surface.CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM: The scalp has no hemorrhage or contusions. The calvarium is intact. There is no epidural, subdural or subarachnoid hemorrhage. The brain has a normal convolutional pattern and weighs 1300 grams. The meninges are clear. The cortical surfaces of the brain have mild to moderate flattening of the gyri with narrowing of the sulci. The brain is cut after formalin fixation and a separate neuropathology report is attached.SPECIAL PROCEDURES: Layer by layer anterior and posterior neck dissections were conducted. Dissection of the entire back including both gluteal regions was conducted. A biological trace evidence was collected. Multiple hairs were pulled from various parts of the head. The nails of the left hand were cut and preserved. Additional blood and tissue samples for DNA was collected.FINAL PATHOLOGICAL DIAGNOSES:I. ACUTE COMBINED DRUG INTOXICATIONA. Toxic/lethal drug:Chloral Hydrate (Noctec).1.Trichloroethanol (TCE) 75ug/mL (active metabolite).2.Trichloroacetic acid ( TCA) 85ug/mL (inactive metabolite).B. Therapeutic drugs:1. Diphenhydramine (Bendaryl) 0.11 mg/L.2. Clonazepam (Klonopin) 0.04 mg/L.3. Diazepam (Valium) 0.21 mg/L.4. Nordiazepam (metabolite) 0.38 mg/L.5 Temazepam (metabolite) 0.09 mg/L.6. Oxazepam 0.09 mg/L.7. Lorazepam 22.0 ng/mL.C. Other non-contributory drugs present (atropine, topiramate, ciprofloxacin, acetaminophen).II. LEFT GLUTEAL PANNICULITIS, WITH ABSCESS FORMATION AND RECENT LINEAR HEMORRHAGE.III. FIBROSIS WITH FAT NECROSIS (CHRONIC REPEATED INJECTIONS OF VARIOUS MEDICATIONS IN BUTTOCKS) OF DERMAL AND SUBCUTANEOUS TISSUES, BILATERAL GLUTEAL REGIONS AND ANTERIOR RIGHT THIGH.IV. GASTROENTERITIS, MILD, OF PROBABLE VIRAL ETIOLOGY.V. DEPRESSION FOLLOWING RECENT DELIVERY OF TERM INFANT AND RECENT DEATH OF ADULT SON (SEPTEMBER 2006).VI. MODERATE CONGESTIVE HEPATOMEGALY (2550 GRAMS).VII. FIBROUS PLEURAL ADHESIONS.VIII. CHRONIC THYROIDITIS (HASHIMOTO THYROIDITIS).IX. WELL HEALED SUPRAPUBIC SCAR (STATUS POST CESAREAN SECTION).X. MINIMAL, INSIGNIFICANT MYOCARDIAL FIBROSIS.XI. STATUS POST MEDICAL INTERVENTION.A. Endotracheal tube placement.B. Right jugular line placement.C. Cardiac Monitoring devices and defibrillator pad placement.D. Bilateral anterior elbow and left anterior wrist venipuncture sites with surrounding ecchymoses.XII. STATUS POST BILATERAL BREAST IMPLANTS WITH SCARRING, LEFT AREOLA.XIII. MICRO-INFARCT OF BRAIN, LEFT OCCIPITAL WHITE MATTER.XIV. MINOR CONTUSIONS, POSTERIOR SHOULDERS.OPINION: ABC was a 39-year-old white female who died of acute combined drug intoxication. Abscesses of buttocks, and viral enteritis were contributory causes of death.THE MANNER OF DEATH IS DETERMINED TO BE: ACCIDENT"
"EXTERNAL EXAMINATION: The autopsy is begun at 8:30 A.M. on May 24, 2004. The body is presented in a black body bag. The victim is wearing a white sleeveless turtleneck shirt and navy blue sweatpants. Jewelry included two smooth-textured silver hoop pierced earrings, 1-inch diameter, one in each ear, and one 1-inch wide silver expandable wristband on left wrist. A 1.5-inch wide tan belt with green stripes is cinched around the upper neck using the buckle. The opposite end of the belt is tied in a half-hitch knot, which was used to affix it to the crossbar in the closet where the body was found. The body is that of a normally developed white female measuring 67 inches and weighing 118 pounds, and appearing generally consistent with the stated age of twenty-six years. The body is cold and unembalmed. Lividity is fixed in the distal portions of the limbs. The eyes are open. The irises are brown and corneas are cloudy. Petechial hemorrhaging is present in the conjunctival surfaces of the eyes. The pupils measure 0.3 cm. The hair is dark blonde with lighter blonde highlights, wavy, layered and approximately 11 inches in length at the longest point. Removal of the belt revealed a ligature mark (known throughout this report as Ligature A) on the neck below the mandible. Ligature A is approximately 1.5 inches wide and encircles the neck in the form of a \"\"V\"\" on the anterior of the neck and an inverted \"\"V\"\" on the posterior of the neck, consistent with hanging. Minor abrasions are present in the area of Ligature A. Lack of hemorrhage surrounding Ligature A indicates this injury to be post-mortem. Upon removal of the victim's clothing, an odor of bleach was detected. Areas of the body were swabbed and submitted for detection of hypochlorite. Following removal of the shirt, a second ligature mark (known throughout this report as Ligature B) was observed on the victim's neck. The mark is dark red ligature and encircles the neck, crossing the anterior midline of the neck just below the laryngeal prominence. The width of the mark varies between 0.8 and 1cm and is horizontal in orientation. The skin of the anterior neck above and below the ligature mark shows petechial hemorrhaging. Ligature B is not consistent with the belt that caused Ligature A. The absence of abrasions associated with Ligature B, along with the variations in the width of the ligature mark, are consistent with a soft ligature, such as a length of fabric. No trace evidence was recovered from Ligature B that might assist in identification of the ligature used. The genitalia are that of an adult female and there is no evidence of injury. Pubic hair has been shaved in its entirety within six hours of death. Limbs are equal, symmetrically developed and show no evidence of injury. The fingernails are medium length and fingernail beds are blue. There are no residual scars, markings or tattoos.INTERNAL EXAMINATION: HEAD--CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM: Subsequent autopsy shows a broken hyoid bone. Hemorrhaging from Ligature B penetrates the skin and subdermal tissues of the neck. The brain weighs 1,303 grams and within normal limits. SKELETAL SYSTEM: The hyoid bone is fractured. RESPIRATORY SYSTEM--THROAT STRUCTURES: The oral cavity shows no lesions. Petechial hemorrhaging is present in the mucosa of the lips and the interior of the mouth. Otherwise, the mucosa is intact and there are no injuries to the lips, teeth or gums. There is no obstruction of the airway. The mucosa of the epiglottis, glottis, piriform sinuses, trachea and major bronchi are anatomic. No injuries are seen and there are no mucosal lesions. The hyoid bone, the thyroid, and the cricoid cartilages are fractured. The lungs weigh: right, 355 grams; left 362 grams. The lungs are unremarkable. CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM: The heart weighs 253 grams, and has a normal size and configuration. No evidence of atherosclerosis is present. GASTROINTESTINAL SYSTEM: The mucosa and wall of the esophagus are intact and gray-pink, without lesions or injuries. The gastric mucosa is intact and pink without injury. Approximately 125 ml of partially digested semisolid food is found in the stomach. The mucosa of the duodenum, jejunum, ileum, colon and rectum are intact. URINARY SYSTEM: The kidneys weigh: left, 115 grams; right, 113 grams. The kidneys are anatomic in size, shape and location and are without lesions. FEMALE GENITAL SYSTEM: The structures are within normal limits. Examination of the pelvic area indicates the victim had not given birth and was not pregnant at the time of death. There is evidence of recent sexual activity but no indications that the sexual contact was forcible. Vaginal fluid samples are removed for analysis. TOXICOLOGY: Sample of right pleural blood and bile are submitted for toxicologic analysis. Stomach contents are saved. SEROLOGY: A sample of right pleural blood is submitted in the EDTA tube. Routine toxicologic studies were ordered.LABORATORY DATACEREBROSPINAL FLUID CULTURE AND SENSITIVITY:Gram stain: UnremarkableCulture: No growth after 72 hoursCEREBROSPINAL FLUID BACTERIAL ANTIGENS:Hemophilus influenza B: NegativeStreptococcus pneumoniae: NegativeN. Meningitidis: NegativeNeiserria meningitidis B/E. Coli K1: Negative Drug Screen Results:URINE SCREEN {IMMUNOASSAY} WAS NEGATIVE. Ethanol: 0 gm/dl, Blood (Heart)Ethanol: 0 gm/dl, Vitreous EVIDENCE COLLECTED:1. One (1) white turtleneck sleeveless shirt, size Small. 2. One (1) pair navy blue sweatpants, size Small.3. Two (2) silver hoop earrings. 4. One (1) silver bracelet.5. Samples of Blood (type O+), Bile, and Tissue (heart, lung, brain, kidney, liver, spleen). 6. Fifteen (15) swabs from various body locations, to be tested for presence of hypochlorite.7. Eleven (11) autopsy photographs. 8. One postmortem CT scan. 9. One postmortem MRI. OPINIONTIME OF DEATH: Body temperature, rigor and livor mortis, and stomach contents approximate the time of death between 7:30 and 9:30 P.M. on 5/22/2004. IMMEDIATE CAUSE OF DEATH: Asphyxia due to ligature strangulation (Ligature B). Ligature A is made post-mortem. MANNER OF DEATH: Homicide REMARKS: Decedent originally presented to this office as suicide victim. Presence of the post-mortem ligature mark suggests that suicide in this case is highly improbable. YCSD detectives were notified of this finding immediately upon conclusion of examination."
"FINAL DIAGNOSIS: I. Ligature strangulation.A. Circumferential ligature with associated ligature furrow of neck.B. Abrasions and petechial hemorrhages, neck.C. Petechial hemorrhages, conjunctival surfaces of eyes and skin of face.II. Craniocerebral injuries.A. Scalp contusion.B. Linear, comminuted fracture of right side of skull.C. Linear pattern of contusions of right cerebral hemisphere.D. subarachnoid and subdural hemorrhage.E. Small contusions, tips of temporal lobes.III. Abrasion of right cheek.IV. Abrasion/contusion, posterior right shoulder.V. Abrasions of left lower back and posterior left lower leg.VI. Abrasion and vancular congestion of vaginal mucosa.VII. Ligature of right wrist.TOXICOLOGIC STUDIES Blood ethanol - none detected.Blood drug screen - no drugs detected.CLINOCOPATHOLIGICAL CORRELATION: Cause of death of this six year old female is asphyxia by strangulation associated with craniocerebral trauma. The body of this six year old female was first seen by me after I was called to an address XYZ, on 12/26/96. I arrived at the scene approximately 8 PM on 12/26 and entered the house where the decedent's body was located at approximately 8:20 PM. A brief examination of the body disclosed a ligature around the neck and a ligature around the right wrist. Also noted was a small area of abrasion or contusion below the right ear on the lateral aspect of the right cheek. A prominent dried abrasion was present on the lower left neck. After examining the body, I left the residence at approximately 8:30 PM. EXTERNAL EVIDENCE OF INJURY: Located just below the right ear at the right angle of the mandible, 1.5 inches below the right external auditory canal is a 3/8 x 1/4 inch area of rust colored abrasion. In the lateral aspect of the left lower eyelid on the inner conjunctival surface is a 1 mm in maximum dimension petechial hemorrhage. Very fine, less than 1 mm petechial hemorrhages are present on the skin of the upper eyelids bilaterally as well as on the lateral left cheek. On everything the left upper eyelid there are much smaller, less than 1 mm petechial hemorrhages located on the conjunctival surface. Possible petechial hemorrhages are also seen on the conjunctival surfaces of the right upper and lower eyelids, but liver mortis on this side of the face makes definite identification difficult. A deep ligature furrow encircles the entire neck. The width of the furrow varies from one- eight of an inch to five/sixteenths of an inch and is horizontal in orientation, with little upward deviation. The skin of the anterior neck above and below the ligature furrow contains areas of petechial hemorrhage and abrasion encompassing an area measuring approximately 3 x 2 inches. The ligature furrow crosses the anterior midline of the neck just below the laryngeal prominence, approximately at the level of the cricoid cartilage. It is almost completely horizontal with slight upward deviation from the horizontal towards the back of the neck. The midline of the furrow mark on the anterior neck is 8 inches below the top of the head. The midline of the furrow mark on the posterior neck is 6.75 inches below the top of the head. The area of abrasion and petechial hemorrhage of the skin of the anterior neck includes on the lower left neck, just to the left of the midline, a roughly triangular, parchment-like rust colored abrasion which measures 1.5 inches in length with a maximum width of 0.75 inches. This roughly triangular shaped abrasion is obliquely oriented with the apex superior and lateral. The remainder of the abrasions and petechial hemorrhages of the skin above and below the anterior projection of the ligature furrow are nonpatterned, purple to rust colored, and present in the midline, right, and left areas of the anterior neck. The skin just above the ligature furrow along the right side of the neck contains petechial hemorrhage composed of multiple confluent very small petechial hemorrhages as well as several larger petechial hemorrhages measuring up to one-sixteenth and one-eight of an inch in maximum dimension. Similar smaller petechial hemorrhages are present on the skin below the ligature furrow on the left lateral aspect of the neck. Located on the right side of the chin is a three-sixteenths by one-eight of an inch area of superficial abrasion. On the posterior aspect of the right shoulder is a poorly demarcated, very superficial focus of abrasion/contusion which is pale purple in color and measures up to three-quarters by one-half inch in maximum dimension. Several linear aggregates of petechial hemorrhages are present in the anterior left shoulder just above deltopectoral groove. These measure up to one inch in length by one-sixteenth to one-eight of an inch in width. On the left lateral aspect of the lower back, approximately sixteen and one-quarter inches and seventeen and one-half inches below the level of the top of the head are two dried rust colored to slightly purple abrasions. The more superior of the two measures one-eight by one-sixteenth of an inch and the more inferior measures three-sixteenths by one-eight of an inch. There is no surrounding contusion identified. On the posterior aspect of the left lower leg, almost in the midline, approximately 4 inches above the level of the heel are two small scratch-like abrasions which are dried and rust colored. They measure one-sixteenth by less than one- sixteenth of an inch and one-eight by less than one-sixteenth of an inch respectively. On the anterior aspect of the perineum, along the edges of closure of the labia majora, is a small amount of dried blood. A similar small amount of dried and semifluid blood is present on the skin of the fourchette and in the vestibule. Inside the vestibule of the vagina and along the distal vaginal wall is reddish hyperemia. This hyperemia is circumferential and perhaps more noticeable on the right side and posteriorly. The hyperemia also appears to extend just inside the vaginal orifice. A 1 cm red-purple area of abrasion is located on the right posterolateral area of the 1 x 1 cm hymeneal orifice. The hymen itself is represented by a rim of mucosal tissue extending clockwise between the 2 and 10:00 positions. The area of abrasion is present at approximately the 7:00 position and appears to involve the hymen and distal right lateral vaginal wall and possibly the area anterior to the hymen. On the right labia majora is a very faint area of violent discoloration measuring approximately one inch by three-eighths of an inch. Incision into the underlying subcutaneous tissue discloses no hemorrhage. A minimal amount of semiliquid thin watery red fluid is present in the vaginal vault. No recent or remote anal or other perineal trauma is identified. REMAINDER OF EXTERNAL EXAMINATION: The unembalmed, well developed and well nourished Caucasian female body measures 47 inches in length and weighs an estimated 45 pounds. No scalp trauma is identified. The external auditory canals are patent and free of blood. The eyes are green and the pupils equally dilated. The sclerae are white. The nostrils are both patent and contain a small amount of tan mucous material. The teeth are native and in good repair. The tongue is smooth, pink-tan and granular. No buccal mucosal trauma is seen. The frenulum is intact. There is slight drying artifact of the tip of the tongue. On the right cheek is a pattern of dried saliva and mucous material which does not appear to be hemorrhagic. The neck contains no palpable adenopathy or masses and the trachea and larynx are midline. The chest is symmetrical. Breasts are prepubescent. The abdomen is flat and contains no scars. No palpable organomegaly or masses are identified. The external genitalia are that of a prepubescent female. No pubic hair is present. The anus is patent. Examination of the extremities is unremarkable. The fingernails of both hands are of sufficient length for clipping. Examination of the back is unremarkable. There is dorsal 3+ to 4+ livor mortis which is nonblanching. Livor mortis is also present on the right side of the face. At the time of the initiation of the autopsy there is mild 1 to 2+ rigor mortis of the elbows and shoulders with more advanced 2 to 3+ rigor mortis of the joints of the lower extremities. INTERNAL EXAM: The anterior chest musculature is well developed. No sternal or rib fractures are identified. MEDIASTINUM: The mediastinal contents are normally distributed. The 21 gm thymus gland has a normal external appearance. The cut sections are finely lobular and pink-tan. No petechial hemorrhages are seen. The aorta and remainder of the mediastinal structures are unremarkable. BODY CAVITIES: The right and left thoracic cavities contain approximately 5 cc of straw colored fluid. The pleural surfaces are smooth and glistening. The pericardial sac contains 3-4 cc of straw colored fluid and the epicardium and pericardium are unremarkable. The abdominal contents are normally distributed and covered by a smooth glistening serosa. No intra-abdominal accumulation of fluid or blood is seen. LUNGS: The 200 gm right lung and 175 gm let lung have a normal lobar configuration. An occasional scattered subpleural petechial hemorrhage is seen on the surface of each lung. The cut sections of the lungs disclose an intact alveolar architecture with a small amount of watery fluid exuding from the cut surfaces with mild pressure. The intrapulmonary bronchi and vasculature are unremarkable. No evidence of consolidation is seen. HEART: The 100 gm heart has a normal external configuration. There are scattered subepicardial petechial hemorrhages over the anterior surface of the heart. The coronary arteries are normal in their distribution and contain no evidence of atherosclerosis. The tan- pink myocardium is homogeneous and contains no areas of fibrosis or infarction. The endocardium is unremarkable. The valve cusps are thin, delicate and pliable and contain no vegetation or thrombosis. The major vessels enter and leave the heart in the normal fashion. The foramen ovale is closed. AORTA AND VENA CAVA: The aorta is patent throughout its course as are its major branches. No atherosclerosis is seen. The Vena Cava is unremarkable. SPLEEN: The 61 gm spleen has a finely wrinkled purple capsule. Cut sections are homogeneous and disclose readily identifiable red and white pulp. No intrinsic abnormalities are identified. ADRENALS: The adrenal glands are of normal size and shape. A golden yellow cortex surmounts a thin brown-tan medullary area. No intrinsic abnormalities are identified. KIDNEYS: The 40 gm right kidney and 40 gm left kidney have a normal external appearance. The surfaces are smooth and glistening. Cut sections disclose an intact corticomedullary architecture. The renal papilae are sharply demarcated. The pelvocaliceal system is lined by gray-white mucosa which is unremarkable. Both ureters are patent throughout their course to the bladder. LIVER: The 625 gm liver has a normal external appearance. The capsule is smooth and glistening. Cut sections disclose an intact lobular architecture with no intrinsic abnormalities identified. PANCREAS: The pancreas is of normal size and shape. Cut sections are finely lobular and tan. No intrinsic abnormalities are identified. BLADDER: The bladder is contracted and contains no urine. The bladder mucosa is smooth and tan-gray. No intrinsic abnormalities are seen. GENITALIA: The upper portions of the vaginal vault contain no abnormalities. The prepubescent uterus measures 3 x 1 x 0.8 cm and is unremarkable. The cervical os contains no abnormalities. Both fallopian tubes and ovaries are prepubescent and unremarkable by gross examination. GALLBLADDER: The gallbladder contains 2-3 cc of amber bile. No stones are identified and the mucosa is smooth and velvety. The cystic duct, right and left hepatic duct and common bile duct are patent throughout their course to the duodenum. G.I. TRACT: The esophagus is empty. It is lined by gray-white mucosa. The stomach contains a small amount (8-10 cc) of viscous to green to tan colored thick mucous material without particulate matter identified. The gastric mucosa is autolyzed but contains no areas of hemorrhage or ulceration. The proximal portion of the small intestine contains fragmented pieces of yellow to light green-tan apparent vegetable or fruit material which may represent fragments of pineapple. No hemorrhage is identified. The remainder of the small intestine is unremarkable. The large intestine contains soft green fecal material. The appendix is present. LYMPHATIC SYSTEM: Unremarkable. MUSCULOSKELETAL SYSTEM: Unremarkable. SKULL AND BRAIN: Upon reflection of the scalp there is found to be an extensive area of scalp hemorrhage along the right temporoparietal area extending from the orbital ridge, posteriorly all the way to the occipital area. This encompasses an area measuring approximately 7 x 4 inches. This grossly appears to be fresh hemorrhage with no evidence of organization. At the superior extension of this area of hemorrhage is a linear to comminuted skull fracture which extends from the right occipital to posteroparietal area forward to the right frontal area across the parietal portion of the skull. the posteroparietal area of this fracture is a roughly rectangular shaped displaced fragment of skull measuring one and three-quarters by one-half inch. The hemorrhage and the fracture extend posteriorly just past the midline of the occipital area of the skull. This fracture measures approximately 8.5 inches in length. On removal of the skull cap there is found to be a thin film of subdural hemorrhage measuring approximately 7-8 cc over the surface of the right cerebral hemisphere and extending to the base of the cerebral hemisphere. The 1450 gm brain has a normal overall architecture. Mild narrowing of the sulci and flattening of the gyri are seen. No inflammation is identified. There is a thin film of subarachnoid hemorrhage overlying the entire right cerebral hemisphere. On the right cerebral hemisphere underlying the previously mentioned linear skull fracture is an extensive linear area of purple contusion extending from the right frontal area, posteriorly along the lateral aspect of the parietal region and into the occipital area. This area of contusion measures 8 inches in length with a width of up to 1.75 inches. At the tip of the right temporal lobe is a one-quarter by one quarter inch similar appearing purple contusion. Only very minimal contusion is present at the tip of the left temporal lobe. This area of contusion measures only one-half inch in maximum dimension. The cerebral vasculature contains no evidence of atherosclerosis. Multiple coronal sections of the cerebral hemispheres, brain stem and cerebullum disclose no additional abnormalities. The areas of previously described contusion are characterized by purple linear streak-like discolorations of the gray matter perpendicular to the surface of the cerebral cortex. These extend approximately 6 mm into the cerebral cortex. Examination of the base of the brain discloses no additional fractures. NECK: Dissection of the neck is performed after removal of the thoracoabdominal organs and the brain. The anterior strap musculature of the neck is serially dissected. Multiple sections of the sternocleidomastoid muscle disclose no hemorrhages. Sections of the remainder of the strap musculature of the neck disclose no evidence of hemorrhage. Examination of the thyroid cartilage, cricoid cartilage and hyoid bone disclose not evidence of fracture of hemorrhage. Multiple cross sections of the tongue disclose no hemorrhage or traumatic injury. The thyroid gland weights 2 gm and is normal in appearance. Cut sections are finely lobular and red-tan. The trachea and larynx are lined by smooth pink-tan mucosa without intrinsic abnormalities. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION: (All Sections Stained with H&E) (Slide Key) - (A) - scalp hemorrhage, (B) - sections of vaginal mucosa with smallest fragment representing area of abrasion of 7:00 position, (C) - heart, (D-F) - lungs, (G) - liver and spleen, (H) - pancreas and kidney, (I) - thyroid and bladder, (J) - thymus and adrenals, (K-L) - reproductive organs, (M) - larynx, (N-T) - brain. MYOCARDIUM: Sections of the ventricular myocardium are composed of interlacing bundles of cardiac muscle fibers. No fibrosis or inflammation are identified. LUNGS: The alveolar architecture of the lungs is well preserved. Pulmonary vascular congestion is identified. No intrinsic abnormalities are seen. SPLEEN: There is mild autolysis of the spleen. Both red and white pulp are identifiable. THYROID: The thyroid gland is composed of normal-appearing follicles. An occasional isolated area of chronic interstitial inflammatory infiltrate is seen. There is also a small fragment of parathyroid tissue. THYMUS: The thymus gland retains the usual architecture. The lymphoid material is intact and scattered Hassall's corpuscles are identified. Mild vascular congestion is identified. TRACHEA: There is mild chronic inflammation in the submucosa of the trachea. LIVER: The lobular architecture of the liver is well preserved. No inflammation or intrinsic abnormality are identified. PANCREAS: There is autolysis of the pancreas which is otherwise unremarkable. KIDNEY: The overall architecture of the kidney is well preserved. There is perhaps mild vascular congestion in the cortex but no inflammation is identified. BLADDER: The transitional epithelium of the bladder is autolyzed. No significant intrinsic abnormalities are seen. REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS: Sections of the uterus are consistent with the prepubescent age. The ovary is unremarkable. ADRENAL: The architecture of the adrenal is well preserved and no intrinsic abnormalities are seen. BRAIN: Sections of the areas of contusion disclose disrupted blood vessels of the cortex with surrounding hemorrhage. There is no evidence of inflammatory infiltrate or organization of the hemorrhage. Subarachnoid hemorrhage is also identified. Cortical neurons are surrounded by clear halos, as are glial cells. VAGINAL MUCOSA: All of the sections contain vascular congestion and focal interstitial chronic inflammation. the smallest piece of tissue, from the 7:00 position of the vaginal wall/hymen, contain epithelial erosion with underlying capillary congestion. A small number of red blood cells is present on the eroded surface, as is birefringent foreign material. Acute inflammatory infiltrate is not seen. EVIDENCE: Items turned over to the Police Department as evidence include: Fibers and hair from clothing and body surfaces; ligatures; clothing; vaginal swabs and smears; rectal swabs and smears; oral swabs and smears; paper bags from hands, fingernail clippings, jewelry, paper bags from feet; white body bag; sample of head hair, eyelashes and eyebrows; swabs from right and left thighs and right cheek; red top and purple top tubes of blood."
"MANNER OF DEATH: Homicide.CAUSE OF DEATH: Exsanguination due to multiple stab and incised wounds (head, Neck, trunk, upper extremities).FINDINGS:1. Generalized pallor and evidence of exsanguination.2. Multiple stab and incised wounds of head, neck, trunk and upper extremities with one (1) stab wound penetrating left skull into brain; three (3) stab wounds penetrating right back into chest cavity and right lung; another stab wound at lateral right chest penetrating into right lung; and multiple wounds of upper extremities consistent with defensive injuries.3. Left lower lateral chest-wall abrasions and contusions with overlying rib fractures of left ribs #6, #7 and #8.4. Subarachnoid hemorrhage of right cerebrum underlying one of the large, undermined right scalp incised wounds.5. A few other minor blunt-force injuries of head and trunk.6. Moderate emphysematous changes of lungs.LABORATORY RESULTS: TOXICOLOGY:1. Blood: a. Ethanol: 0.16 gm%.b. Drugs: Cocaine present at less than 0.1 ug/ml; cocaethylene present at 0.2 ug/ml; quantity not sufficient for further examination.2. Urine: Positive for cocaine, cocaine metabolite (ecgonine methyl ester),and cocaethylene, with negative EMIT barbiturates screen.3. Ocular fluid: Ethanol, 0.16 gm%.INTRODUCTIONGENERAL APPEARANCE: The body is that of a well-developed, well-nourished, adult white man who appears the stated age of 43 years. Body height is 69 inches, and body weight is 169 lb. At autopsy, rigor mortis is generalized to late; livor mortis is posterior and slightly blanching; the body is cool to touch. Artifacts of decomposition are absent, and evidence of medical and postmortem care is absent. There is obvious evidence of multiple sharp-force injury.IDENTIFICATION: The identity of decedent was established by circumstances of death and discovery of the body.ROUTINE EXTERNAL EXAMINATIONCLOTHING AND VALUABLES: The body is admitted to the morgue dressed and within a sheet and shroud, and then within a body bag, and with the hands bagged.Clothing is very bloody and has injuries matching those at the trunk (see below). In addition, prior to removal of clothing, the body was examined concurrently by me and by the crime scene technician from the (edited) Police Department, and trace evidence was collected from the body and clothing. See \"\"TRACE EVIDENCE\"\" section at end of report. The clothing consists of a blue-and-white western-style shirt, a pair of blue jeans, a brown belt, a pair of white socks and a pair of brown cowboy-style boots. Valuables on or with the body include a cigarette lighter, a key ring with five (5) keys, a pocket knife and $16.43 in cash. The valuables are released to the mother of the decedent while the clothing is retained for the law enforcement agency.Please also see \"\"ARTIFACTS\"\" and \"\"INJURIES\"\" sections below.HEAD AND NECK: The head is normally shaped. Scalp hair is short, brown and straight with the frontal portion balding. The head, face, neck and upper shoulders show no suffusion. The irides are green; the pupils are equal and round; the sclerae are white; the conjunctivae have no petechiae and the periorbital areas have no ecchymosis. Facial hair is clean shaven. A slight amount of bloody mucus is present inn the nasal and oral cavities. The teeth are natural, and oral hygiene is good. Intraoral petechiae are not present. The neck has no deformities and has the usual range of motion without crepitus.TRUNK: The chest is not increased in the anteroposterior dimension but has heavy, dried blood over the xiphoid and lower sternal regions. The breasts are masculine and have no palpable masses or nipple discharge. The abdomen is soft with a modest panniculus adiposus, and there is no venous discoloration of the external wall. The back and buttocks have no natural abnormalities. The anus is moderately dilated with some reddish purple circumferential ecchymosis, but there are no lacerations and no visible scars. The external genitalia are appropriate for age and have no injuries.EXTREMITIES: The extremities are symmetrical and without natural deformities. The legs have no significant peripheral edema and no skin atrophy. The fingernails are all of medium length except the ring fingers which are short and even. The right ring fingernail appears acutely missing but in a smooth,bloodless fashion.SCARS, TATTOOS, NEVI, INCIDENTAL FINDINGS: The low midclavicular left chest has two (2) old scars, possibly skin grafting. An old scar is at the low left paravertebral back. A short scar is at the back of the web space of the left thumb. Old scars are also at the left knee with one (1) being surgical. The back of the left wrist has a tattoo of the letters \"\"JD\"\". ARTIFACTS OF MEDICAL OR POSTMORTEM CAREThere are no acute or recent medical artifacts. The body has no embalming or other mortician's artifacts.ARTIFACTS OF THE POSTMORTEM INTERVALSee \"\"GENERAL APPEARANCE\"\" above for signs of death. Decomposition is minimal but progressing internally with some autolysis. There is no significant putrefaction.INJURIES Multiple incised and stab wounds are present on the head, neck, chest, back and upper extremities. These are entirely too numerous to count and detail. However, in general, there are 30 or more on the head, 15 or more on the chest and back, and about 40 defensive incised wounds at the right and left hands and forearms. Most of the sharp-force injuries present are incised wounds, and most of the stab wound are actually nonpenetrating of the body cavities, except as detailed below, and except for the deeper ones at the upper extremities. There are also some blunt-force injuries and some overlying rib fractures as below.Many of the head wounds are very irregular and have slightly scalloped or curving borders, as discussed below. The forehead, the right face beside the nose, the right lips, the left side of the head and ear and the right side of the head have multiple incised wounds. At the forehead, the largest is 5 cm long and is irregular and mostly vertical while most of the incised wounds are diagonal, slanting from upper left to lower right, and being about 1.5 cm long each. The longest at the right face is 5.5 cm long. Those at the lips are superficial. At the left side of the head are several marks, mostly diagonal downward and to the front and also passing along the left side of the forehead and the left side of the face. At the frontoparietal area is a V-shaped incision which appears to be two incisions crossing. There are also five (5) short, jab-type incisions at the lateral-most low left forehead. These just penetrate the outer table of the skull beneath this area, the largest being 0.2 x 0.1 cm. Just inferior and posterior to these jab wounds is a definite, penetrating stab wound of the skull. At the skin, this is diagonal with the blunt end 0.1-0.2 cm in thickness, and being at the anteroinferior aspect of the diagonal stab wound, and the acute angle at the superoposterior aspect, the wound being 1.6 cm long. At the skull, this makes a similar triangular- shaped wound, more horizontal over the left sphenoid bone, with a base thickness of 0.1-0.2 cm and length of 1.6 cm. The anterior-most 1.0 cm of this stab is the actual penetration of the skull. It passes 3.5 cm total (approximately) through the skin and brain, passing into the brain about 2.0 cm at the inferolateral left frontal lobe. It creates a 1-cm-wide x 2-cm-deep permanent stab cavity at that area. It just enters the tip of the left lateral ventricle and is accompanied by a slight intraventricular hemorrhage and also by a slight white-matter contusion surrounding the injury. The inferior border of the left ear has a prominent red band of abrasion and an upside-down V-shape, with a 6-cm-long vertical incision passing through the center of the abrasion and onto the upper lateral left neck. The longest incision of the left face is 5 cm long.At the right side of the head are multiple stab wounds varying from 1.5 to 5.5 cm long, and including a curving stab, 6.5 cm long, with undermining in the posterior direction. In front of the right ear is a 9.5-cm-long, curvingincision also.At the top of the head, located mostly on the right front side are another group of incised wounds, the most prominent having slightly scalloped edges, and being 2.2 cm long. At the upper lateral left side of the head are two (2) wounds, 0.9 cm between each other and parallel, each curving slightly and having slightly scalloped edges with the scalloping especially at the left, and with overlying, perpendicular, parallel, pale, reddish purple abrasion and contusion lines over a total area of 2 x 3 cm.Beginning at the middle of the upper right sternocleidomastoid muscle, the right posterolateral and posterior neck have deep, muscular, incised wounds actually representing about two or three total cuts. The left-most aspect has a 1 cm superficial cut while the major cut passing over to the right posterolateral region is 13.5 cm long. A separate 2-cm-long incision overlies the right posterolateral aspect of this incision and combines with the incision for an additional 9 cm to terminate at the right sternocleidomastoid muscle where this discussion began. More inferiorly, the right sternocleidomastoid muscle also has a smaller incision.The head also has some blunt-force injuries although these may be ragged incised wounds from a dull object. The back of the head has four (4) parallel, diagonal (upper left to lower right) lacerations with visible tissue bridging. The uppermost two (2) are the most superficial and may actually be incisions, these being 1.5 cm long and 4.0 cm long, respectively. The lowermost two are mostly on the left side and are 2.7 and 1.7 cm long, respectively, and they have prominent abrasion and contusion around the edges. The back of the right ear also has some reddish purple and reddish black abrasion and contusion; the nasal bridge and tip of the nose have some abrasions and contusions; the left scalp above the ear has a linear, vertical abrasion; and the vertex of the head has a 2.3- x 0.6-cm irregular abrasion. Inside the head, the right parietotemporal region of the cerebrum has a focal area of increased subarachnoid hemorrhage; but, other than the stab wound at the left frontal lobe, the brain has no contusion, lacerations, subdural hematoma or other injuries. This does underlie the larger, curving, 6.5-cm-long incised wound discussed earlier. The spinal cord is not examined.At the left midclavicular region of the upper left chest are some small, skip- like abrasions. The midright clavicular region of the upper chest also has a small area of abrasion. At the right parasternal chest is a 5-cm-tall stab wound. The inferior border is slightly rounded or acute and has some slight contusion with slightly undulating edges at the inferior third of the stab wound. The upper edge of the stab wound at the skin is squared off, 0.3 cm wide. The stab passes through the sternum in a roughly diagonal fashion with blunt upper right edge and acute lower left edge, passing into the chest at the right third intercostal space anteriorly. It passes posteriorly, slightly downward and to the right, and it just catches the outer edge of the right lung at the junction of the right upper and right middle lobes. The stab stops in the lung for a total of about 6 cm. Otherwise, the anterior chest has no stab wounds. Laterally, the right upper chest has a 1.6-cm-long stab, roughly horizontally oriented with the posterior aspect acute and the anterior aspect blunt. This passes into the right posterolateral chest via the third right intercostal space with no visible entry into the lung and with a depth of the stab totalling greater than or equal to 6 cm.The lateral left chest at the lower half has an irregular area of mottled abrasions and contusions without pattern, the largest two (2) areas being 3.0 x 0.3 cm and 1 x 1 cm. These overlie the fractures of the ribs with accompanying slight intercostal-space contusion, mainly at the left lateral sixth rib, the left posterolateral seventh rib, and the left posterolateral eighth rib. The seventh rib has a parietal pleural perforation and thegreatest amount of contusional hemorrhage. These are blunt-force injuries. At the back, there are multiple shallow stabs and jab-type wounds along with some tiny superficial abrasions or incisions, all less than or equal to 0.3 cm. At the left upper shoulder posteriorly are two (2) of the moreprominent superficial stab wounds not passing into the chest, the upper right lateral one being diagonally oriented and 2.2 cm long, and the more medial one being 1.4 cm long and oriented horizontally. At the midcenter of the back, slightly more on the right side of the spine than the left, are seven (7) parallel, diagonal stabs. These all have roughly the same appearance at the skin, although their upper and lower edges are less distinct than other stab wounds on the body. Three (3) of these are chosen for representativemeasurements. The uppermost right stab of this group is 1.8 cm long and appears to have the blunt edge downward with a V-shaped acute edge superiorly. Bringing the two edges of the wound together creates almost a double \"\"V,\"\" although the inferior aspect is more of a shallow \"\"V\"\" than the upper \"\"V\"\" is. The inferior-most right wound in this group is 1.5 cm long and has a prominent inferior \"\"V\"\" with an acute superior edge. Bringing the two sides together creates no \"\"V\"\" at the top at all but makes the inferior \"\"V\"\" more prominent. The uppermost left wound of this group is 1.6 cm long and has a prominent upper blunt edge and an inferior acute edge. This wound, when the edges are brought together, is a simple slit. Three of the four stabs at the right side of this group penetrate the chest, one going through the sixth posterior right intercostal space, one going through the seventh, and one going through the ninth. These go into the right chest cavity with one injury only penetrating the right lung for a total depth of greater than or equal to 5 cm. This is probably wound \"\"B\"\" with the depth into the lower lobe of the right lung of about 1.5 cm with a height of 1 cm giving the total penetration as mentioned above of greater than or equal to 5 cm. The two (2) stab wounds to the left of the spine pass downward, medially and to the front, but they stop at the left lamina and left lateral side of the spinous processes of the back bone with a short overall distance for the stab of about 2 cm without penetration of the chest cavity.As mentioned earlier, the upper extremities have multiple sharp-force injuries. At the anterior, distal right wrist are several abrasions and lacerations with slight reddish purple contusions, the longest 4.5 x 0.2 cm,and the most prominent, 0.8 x 1.6 cm. These are less clearly defined as incised wounds, although they may be from an irregular object. At the back of the right triceps area, almost exposing the bone, is a bloodless, 19.5-cm-long gaping, deep, incised wound. The lateral proximal right shoulder and proximal arm have three (3) incisions, the longest more distal and is 1.6 cm long, with an irregular distal border suggestive of an acute angle and with a proximal border squared off and 0.2-0.3 cm wide. The back of the right forearm has some small abrasions and some small incised wounds toward the wrist. The distal right biceps area, just above the antecubital fossa, has one (1) small incised wound.The left distal forearm has a large, gaping incised wound of 3 x 5 cm surface area, passing through the tendons. Just proximal to this is a 6- x 4-cm area of dried blood with abrasions and superficial incisions. Just proximal to that and more medial are two (2) parallel, linear, thin abrasions.The backs of the hands have multiple avulsed and oblique incisions and lacerations, mostly incisions, ranging from 1.5-3.2 cm long. In addition, the back of the right hand has a larger, gaping wound, 5.5 x 3.0 cm long, and the right wounds and the left dorsal wrist wounds have superimposed purple contusions. On the medial edge of the right thumb is a 1.3-cm-long incised wound which continues onto the thumb pad itself. At the palmar surface of the left hand are approximately eight (8) oblique incised wounds, one being 2.5 cm long and having scalloped edges, and another being 3 cm long with the others varying. The hands do have clumps of straight, long, possibly blond hairs adherent especially at the left palm. These are collected.Overall, most of the incised wounds of the trunk suggest a single-edged, thin blade, although a double-edged blade cannot be excluded. Many of the head wounds, and also the hand and forearm injuries, suggest a scalloped edge or scalloped object, and the multiple injuries of the hands and forearms areconsistent with defensive injuries.Internally, there is almost no blood present in the heart and great vessels and tissues due to exsanguination from all of these multiple wounds. X-rays of the head and neck and also the chest and upper abdomen show no obvious fractures or foreign bodies. The internal structures of the neck, including the carotid arteries, show no injuries except for the large neck injury passing into the muscle only as mentioned above. The heart, liver, etc., have no injuries. See above for stabs of right lung, stab of brain, left rib fractures and right brain subarachnoid hemorrhage. ROUTINE INTERNAL EXAMINATIONIn general, internal artifacts and injuries have been described above and will not be further detailed in this section.The body cavities are opened in the standard autopsy fashion. The organs are present in their usual anatomic locations and relationships. Little blood is present in the pleural cavities, and there are some slight adhesions at the right upper lobe of the lungs. There is no evidence of empyema, purulent exudate or acute inflammation of the serous cavities. There is no tissue discoloration suggestive for carbon monoxide intoxication or jaundice. There is a slight smell suggestive of alcoholic beverages within the body.The gallbladder contains the usual bile. The stomach contains 20 ml of grayish mucoid fluid with curdled-like, small, soft, whitish lumps of mostly digested, unrecognizable food; but there is no evidence of drug residue. The vermiform appendix is present. The urinary bladder contains clear urine. In general, atherosclerosis is very mild. The heart has no evidence of infarction or scarring. The lungs have bullous emphysematous changes to a slight degree, mostly at the upper lobes. The right lung also has the two (2) stab wounds mentioned earlier. The liver appears pale but not fatty. The spleen, pancreas, kidneys, heart, adrenals, thyroid, pituitary, prostate and bladder are not otherwise remarkable. The testes show no contusions. Thepenis does not appear to be circumcised.Routine organ weights are as follows: heart, 370 gm; right lung, 530 gm; left lung, 580 gm; liver, 1630 gm; spleen, 80 gm; pancreas, 160 gm; right kidney, 140 gm; left kidney, 170 gm; and brain, 1450 gm.PROCEDURES AND SPECIMENSTOXICOLOGY: Blood, bile, urine, ocular fluid, nasal swabs. PHOTOGRAPHY: Instant print and 35-mm slide identification pictures. Instant-print photos are also taken of the scene and of many of the injuries.TRACE EVIDENCE: Trace materials on tape from right shoulder/chest; possibly small glass fragment from left upper chest; trace materials on tape from left shoulder/neck/chest; trace materials on tape from chest; glass fragments from back; possible glass fragments from chest; hairs adherent to right and left sleeves of shirt; hairs adherent to left hand; one (1) hair from inside the mouth; right fingernail clippings; left fingernail clippings; and adherent hairs from right hand. Purple- and red-topped tubes of blood are also collected and sent to the lab.CHEMISTRIES OR CULTURES: None.FIREARMS EXAMINATION: None.X-RAYS: See \"\"INJURIES.\"\"MICROSCOPIC EXAMINATION: Representative sections of major organ systems have been obtained and routinely processed onto glass slides for histologic examination. These have been reviewed.The liver, heart and kidney are not remarkable aside from some moderately advanced autolysis especially at the kidney. The lungs show diffuse, moderate emphysematous changes including septal fibrosis and an increased number of macrophages, along with congestion. The cerebrum shows acute petechial hemorrhages at the directed section from the stab-wound area, but otherwise the cerebrum is not remarkable. The anoderm shows no contusion, but it does have dilated submucosal vessels without significant inflammation or scarring. There are no additional significant findings."
"ANATOMICAL SUMMARY1. Sharp force wound of neck, left side, with transection of left internal jugular vein.2. Multiple stab wounds of chest, abdomen, and left thigh: Penetrating stab wounds of chest and abdomen with right hemothorax and hemoperitoneum.3. Multiple incised wounds of scalp, face, neck, chest and left hand (defense wound).4. Multiple abrasions upper extremities and hands (defense wounds).NOTES AND PROCEDURES1. The body is described in the Standard Anatomical Position. Reference is to this position only.2. Where necessary, injuries are numbered for reference. This is arbitrary and does not correspond to any order in which they may have been incurred. All the injuries are antemortem, unless otherwise specified.3. The term \"\"anatomic\"\" is used as a specification to indicate correspondence with the description as set forth in the textbooks of Gross Anatomy. It denotes freedom from significant, visible or morbid alteration.EXTERNAL EXAMINATION: The body is that of a well developed, well nourished Caucasian male stated to be 25 years old. The body weighs 171 pounds, measuring 69 inches from crown to sole. The hair on the scalp is brown and straight. The irides appear hazel with the pupils fixed and dilated. The sclerae and conjunctive are unremarkable, with no evidence of petechial hemorrhages on either. Both upper and lower teeth are natural, and there are no injuries of the gums, cheeks, or lips.There is a picture-type tattoo on the lateral aspect of the left upper arm. There are no deformities, old surgical scars or amputations.Rigor mortis is fixed.The body appears to the Examiner as stated above. Identification is by toe tag and the autopsy is not material to identification. The body is not embalmed.The head is normocephalic, and there is extensive evidence of external traumatic injury, to be described below. Otherwise, the eyes, nose and mouth are not remarkable. The neck shows sharp force injuries to be described below. The front of the chest and abdomen likewise show injuries to be described below. The genitalia are that of an adult male, with the penis circumcised, and no evidence of injury.Examination of the posterior surface of the trunk reveals no antemortem traumatic injuries.Refer to available photographs and diagrams and to the specific documentation of the autopsy protocol.CLOTHING: The clothes were examined both before and after removal from the body.The decedent was wearing a long-sleeved type of shirt/sweater; it was extensively bloodstained.On the front, lower right side, there was a 1 1/2 inch long slit-like tear. Also on the lower right sleeve there was a 1 inch slit-like tear. On the back there was a 1/2 inch slit-like tear on the right lower side.Decedent was wearing a pair of Levi jeans bloodstained. On the outside of the left hip region there was a 1-1/2 inch long slit-like tear. The decedent also was wearing 2 canvas type boots and 2 sweat socks.EVIDENCE OF THERAPEUTIC INTERVENTION: None.EVIDENCE OF INJURYSHARP FORCE INJURIES OF NECK1. Sharp force injury of neck, left side, transecting left internal jugular vein. This sharp force injury is complex, and appears to be a combination of a stabbing and cutting wound. It begins on the left side of the neck, at the level of the midlarynx, over the left sternocleidomastoid muscle; it is gaping, measuring 3 inches in length with smooth edges. It tapers superiorly to 1 inch in length cut skin. Dissection discloses that the wound path is through the skin, the subcutaneous tissue, and the sternocleidomastoid muscle with hemorrhage along the wound path and transection of the left internal jugular vein, with dark red-purple hemorrhage in the adjacent subcutaneous tissue and fascia. The direction of the pathway is upward and slightly front to back for a distance of approximately 4 inches where it exits, post-auricular, in a 2 inch in length gaping stab/incised wound which has undulating or wavy borders, but not serrated. Intersecting the wound at right angle superior inferior is a 2 inch in length interrupted superficial, linear incised wound involving only the skin. Also, intervening between the 2 gaping stab-incised wounds is a horizontally oriented 3-1/2 inch in length interrupted superficial, linear incised wound of the skin only. In addition, there is a 1/2 inch long, linear-triangular in size wound of the inferior portion of the left earlobe. The direction of the sharp force injury is upward (rostral), and slightly front to back with no significant angulation or deviation. The total length of the wound path is approximately 4 inches. However, there is a 3/4 inch in length, linear, cutting or incised wound of the top or superior aspect of the pinna of the left ear; a straight metallic probe placed through the major sharp force injury shows that the injury of the superior part of the ear can be aligned with the straight metallic rod, suggesting that the 3 injuries are related; in this instance the total length of the wound path is approximately 6 inches. Also, in the left postauricular region, transversely oriented, extending from the auricular attachment laterally to the scalp is a 1-1/8 inch in length linear superficial incised skin wound.OPINION: This sharp force injury of the neck is fatal, associated with transection of the left internal jugular vein.2. Sharp force wound of the right side of neck. This is a complex injury, appearing to be a combination stabbing and cutting wound. The initial wound is present on the right side of the neck, over the sternocleidomastoid muscle, 3 inches directly below the right external auditory canal. It is diagonally oriented, and after approximation of the edges measures 5/8 inch in length; there is a pointed or tapered end inferiorly and a split or forked end superiorly approximately 1/16 inch in maximal width. Subsequent autopsy shows that the wound path is through the skin and subcutaneous tissue, without penetration of injury of a majorartery or vein; the direction is front to back and upward for a total wound path length of 2 inches and the wound exits on the right side of the back of the neck, posterior to the right sternocleidomastoid muscle where a 2 inch long gaping incised/stab wound is evident on the skin; both ends are tapered; superiorly there is a 1 inch long superficial incised wounds extension on the skin to the back of the head; inferiorly there is a 2 inch long incised superficial skin extension, extending inferiorly towards the back of the neck. There is fresh hemorrhage and bruising along the wound path; the direction, as stated, is upward and slightly front to back.OPINION: This is a nonfatal sharp force injury, with no injury or major artery or vein.3. At the level of the superior border of the larynx there is a transversely oriented, superficial incised wound of the neck, extending from 3 inches to the left of the anterior midline; it is 3 inches in length and involves the skin only; a small amount of cutaneous hemorrhage is evident.OPINION: This is a nonfatal superficial incised wound.4. ImmediateLY inferior and adjacent to incised wound #3 is a transversely oriented, superficial incised wound involving the skin and subcutaneous tissue; there is a small amount of dermal hemorrhage.OPINION: This is a nonfatal superficial incised wound.SHARP FORCE INJURIES OF FACE1. There is a stab wound, involving the right earlobe; it is vertically oriented, and after approximation of the edges measures 1 inch in length with forked or split ends superiorly and inferiorly approximately 1/16 inch in total width both superior and inferior. Subsequent dissection discloses that the wound path is from right to left, in the horizontal plane for approximately 1-1/4 inches; there is fresh hemorrhage along the wound path; the wound path terminates in the left temporal bone and does not penetrate the cranial cavity.OPINION: This is a nonfatal stab wound.2. There is a group of 5 superficial incised or cutting wounds on the right side of the face, involving the right cheek and the right side of the jaw. They are varied in orientation both diagonal and horizontal; the smallest is 1/4 inch in length; the largest 5/8 inch in length. They are superficial, involving the skin only, associated with a small amount of cutaneous hemorrhage.3. On the back of the neck, right side, posterior to the ear and posterior border of the right sternocleidomastoid muscle there is vertically oriented superficial incised skin wound, measuring 3/4 inch in length.4. There are numerous superficial incised wounds or cuts, varied in orientation, involving the skin of the right cheek, intersection and mingled with the various superficial incised wounds described above. The longest is a 3 inch long diagonally oriented superficial incised wound extending from the right side of the forehead to the cheek; various other superficial wound vary from 1/2 to 1 inch.5. On the right side of the cheek, adjacent to the ramus of the mandible, right, there is a 1-1/2 x 3/4 inch superficial nonpatterned red-brown abrasion with irregular border, extending superiorly towards the angle of the jaw where there are poorly defined and circumscribed abrasions adjacent to the superficial cuts or abrasions described above. It should be noted that the 5th superficial incised wound of the right side of the mandible which measures 5/8 inch in length is tapered on the posterior aspect and forked on the anterior aspect where it has a width of 1/32 inch.6. On the left ear, there is a superficial incised wound measuring 1/4 inch, adjacent to the posterior border of the pinna. Just below this on the inferior pinna, extending to the earlobe, there is an interrupted superficial linear abrasion measuring 1 inch in length.SHARP FORCE INJURIES OF SCALP1. The scalp is shaved postmortem for visualization. On the right posterior parietal region of the scalp there is a sharp force wound, diagonally oriented, and after approximation of the edges it measures 5/8 inch in length with a perpendicularly oriented skin cut at the midpoint. Depth of penetration is approximately 1/4 to 3/8 inch into the scalp, with associated deep scalp hemorrhage and a subgaleal hemorrhage beneath the wound measuring 2 x 2 inches in transverse diameter. There is no underlying fracture of the skull or penetration of the cranium.OPINION: This is a sharp force wound that may represent either a cutting wound of a superficial stab wound; nonfatal.2. On the posterior parietal region, midline, to the left of the wound described above there is a 1/4 inch superficial incised wound or skin cut measuring 1/4 inch in length; both ends are pointed or tapered; extension is 1/4 inch into the scalp with a small amount of deep scalp hemorrhage but no subgaleal hemorrhage.3. On the left posterior parietal region there is an injury that is an abrasion, 1/4 x 1/8 inch in maximal diameter and an ovoid in configuration; it is red-brown with a small amount of superficial skin bruising.OPINION: This is a skin abrasion-bruise, noncharacteristic.DESCRIPTION OF MULTIPLE STAB WOUNDSOn the right side of the chest adjacent to the stab wound there are multiple, irregular, brown abrasions consistent with ant bites.1. STAB WOUND OF RIGHT SIDE OF CHEST.The stab wound is located on the right side of the chest, 22 inches below the top of the head and 5 inches from the back of the body; it is vertically oriented and after approximation of the edges it measures 5/8 inch in length. Inferiorly there is a squared off or dull end approximately 1/32 in length; superiorly the wound is tapered. Subsequent autopsy shows that the pathway is through the skin, the subcutaneous tissue, and through the right 7th rib at the approximately midaxillary line where the rib is totally incised. Thereafter, it enters the right pleural cavity which at the time of autopsy contains approximately 100-200 ml of predominantly liquid blood. The path is through the lateral base of the border of the right lower lobe as the path is through the pleura and the immediately subjacent pulmonary parenchyma which is hemorrhagic; the pleural wounds are approximately 1/2-3/4 inch in length; thereafter the pathway is from right to left and back to front and through the pleural cavity where the wound path terminates on the anterior rib cage where a 3/4 cutting wound is found on the posterior aspect of the right 4th rib anteriorly at the approximate midclavicular line; there is overlying bruising in the adjacent intercostal musculature. Estimated length of the total wound path is 4 inches and as stated the direction is right to left and back to front with no other angulation measurable.OPINION: This is a fatal wound associated with perforation of the rightlung and a hemothorax.2. STAB WOUND OF RIGHT SIDE OF CHEST.This wound is located on the right side of the chest, 21 inches below the top of the head and 2 inches from the back of the body. After approximation of the edges it measures 1-1/2 inches in length and is diagonally oriented; the posterior aspect is dull or flat, measuring 1/32 inch and the anterior aspect is pointed or tapered. Subsequent autopsy shows that the wound is through the skin, the subcutaneous tissue, and the intercostal musculature and it penetrates into the pleural cavity through the 8th right intercostal space without striking rib. Thereafter the pathway is similar to stab wound #1 as it passes obliquely through the pleura and subjacent hemorrhagic parenchyma at the base of the right lower lobe; 1/2 inch and 3/4 inch pleural cuts are evident both posteriorly and anteriorly. No other terminating point is evident. There is fresh hemorrhage and bruising noted along the wound path as well as the hemothorax described above. The direction is right to left with no other angulation or deviation determined because of absence of fixed reference points. Estimated minimum total depth of penetration is 2-3 inches.OPINION: This is a fatal stab wound associated with perforation of the lung and hemothorax.3. STAB WOUND OF RIGHT FLANK.This is a diagonally oriented wound, on the right flank, 29 inches below the top of the head and 3-1/2 inches to the back of the body. It measures 3/8 inch in length and involves the skin and subcutaneous tissue without penetrating the chest wall or abdominal wall. No square or dull edges are evident. Both ends are rounded or tapered. OPINION: This is a superficial cutting wound, representing either a superficial stab wound or an incised wound.4. STAB WOUND OF LEFT THIGH.This is a transversely oriented stab wound on the lateral left thigh, 33 inches above the left heel and 4 inches from the back of the thigh. After approximation of the edges it measures 2-1/8 inches in length and posteriorly there is a dull or flat end 1/32 inch and anteriorly a pointed or tapered end. Subsequent autopsy shows that the wound path is through the skin, the subcutaneous tissue, and the muscle without striking bone. There is fresh hemorrhage along the wound path. The depth of penetration is 3 to 3-1/2 inches from left to right without angulation or deviation.OPINION: This is a stab wound of the soft tissue and muscle of the left thigh, nonfatal.5. STAB WOUND OF LEFT SIDE OF ABDOMENThis is a transversely oriented stab wound on the left side of the abdomen, located 45 inches above the left heel. After approximation of the edges it measures 3/4 inch in length with the anterior end pointed or tapered and the posterior end forked or split. Subsequent autopsy shows that the wound passes through the skin, the subcutaneous tissue, and through the retroperitoneal tissue which is hemorrhagic; the pathway is through the left ilio-psoas muscle associated with fresh hemorrhage and bruising. The path is from left to right and slightly back to front; the wound path terminates in the abdominal aorta approximately 1-1/4 inches proximal to the bifurcation. Two perforating 1/2 inch wounds are seen in the wall of the aorta with surrounding para-aortic hemorrhage. In addition to the retroperitoneal hemorrhage, including hemorrhage into the mesocolon, approximately 100 ml of liquid blood is found free within the peritoneal cavity. In addition to the fresh bruising and hemorrhage along the wound path the entire length of the wound path is approximately 5-1/2 inches. The direction is left to right, and a slightly back to front direction with no other angulation or deviation evident.OPINION: This is a fatal stab wound associated with perforation of the abdominal aorta with retroperitoneal and intra-abdominal hemorrhage.6. STAB WOUND OF THE RIGHT UPPER CHEST, LATERAL BORDER OF RIGHT CLAVICLEThis vertically oriented superficial stab wound or incised wound is located on the lateral border of the right clavicle, is vertically oriented, and measures 1/2 inch in length; involves the skin and subcutaneous tissue; inferiorly the wound is split or forked and superiorly it is tapered or pointed. It should be noted that all of the split or forked ends of the previously mentioned stab wounds overall measure approximately 1/16 to 1/8 inch in overall width. There is a small amount of fresh cutaneous hemorrhage. No direction can be evident except for front to back, inasmuch as it is superficial.OPINION: This is a nonfatal superficial stab wound or cutting wound.SHARP FORCE INJURIES OF HANDS:1. On the palmar surface of the right hand, at the base of the index finger, there is a cutting or incised wound, 3/4 inch in length and 1/2 inch deep involving the skin and subcutaneous tissue with hemorrhage in the margins. Both ends are rounded or tapered. OPINION: This is compatible with a defense wound.2. On the palmar surface of the right hand, just proximal to the web of the thumb, there is a triangular or Y-shaped cutting wound measuring 1/2 inch in length maximally and 1/4 inch deep with hemorrhage at the margins.OPINION: This is compatible with a defense wound.3. On the palmar surface of the left hand at the web of the thumb, there is a 3/4 inch in size or cutting wound involving the skin, and subcutaneous tissue; it is approximately 1/4 inch deep with hemorrhage at the margins. Both ends are tapered or pointed with smooth edges similar to the 2 wounds described above.OPINION: This is compatible with a defense wound.OTHER INJURIES TO HANDS AND UPPER EXTREMITIES:1. On the lateral aspect of the right distal forearm, adjacent to the wrist, there is a 3/4 x 1/2 inch abrasion on the ulnar surface, red-brown in color, nonpatterned.2. On the lateral or outer aspect of the left forearm there are multiple abrasions both linear and one that is approximately triangular measuring 3/4 x 1/2 inch; they are all brown to red-brown in color and antemortem; the longest linear abrasion is 3/4 inch in length.3. On the dorsal surface of the right hand there are fresh bruises (red-purple in color) and fresh red-brown abrasions. On the proximal knuckle of the right middle finger a 1 x 3/4 inch bruise with no overlying abrasion. On the middle knuckle of the index finger a 1/2 x 1/2 inch bruise surrounding a 1/8 nondescript abrasion; just distal on the middle phalanx of the middle finger a 1/8 nondescript abrasion. On the proximal knuckle of the right index finer there is a 1/2 x 1/2 inch fresh bruise surrounding a linear diagonally oriented 1/2 inch red-brown abrasion. There is a 1/2 x 1/2 inch fresh bruise on the middle of the right ring finger surrounding 2 punctate abrasions approximately 1/8 inch in maximal diameter; on the middle knuckle of the right 5th finger there is a 1/16 inch punctate nondescript abrasion.4. On the dorsal side of the left hand there are multiple red-brown abrasions irregular in configuration and border, involving the 3 knuckles of the left index finger; maximal dimension 1/4 x 3/8 inch, all red-brown in color. There is an irregularly configured abrasion on the proximal knuckle of the left middle finger consisting of an apparent 3 linear 1/2 inch abrasions converging at the center having a somewhat configuration of the letter W. These are all superficial skin abrasions. On the dorsal side of the left hand adjacent to the web of the thumb there is a linear, 3/4 inch long skin abrasion terminating in a 1/8 inch nondescript punctate abrasionnear the base of the thumb. There is a fresh bruise, 1-1/4 x 1-1/2 inch on the dorsal surface of the left hand adjacent to the wrist surrounding a punctate abrasion.5.. There are 2 fresh bruises on the ulnar surface of the left wrist, nonabraded, measuring respectively 3/8 x 3/8 inch and 1/2 x 1/2 inch, with the bruising involving the skin and dermis.INTERNAL EXAMINATION: The body is opened with the usual Y-shaped thoracoabdominal incision revealing the abdominal adipose tissue to measure 1/2 to 3/4 inch in thickness. The anterior abdominal wall has its normal muscular components and no blunt force injuries are evident. Exposure of the body cavities shows the contained organs in their usual anatomic locations with their usual anatomic relationships. The serosal surfaces are smooth, thin, and glistening and the free blood within the peritoneal cavity due to the stab wound as previously described; this also includes the left retroperitoneal hemorrhage, hemorrhage into the left ilio-psoas muscle, and the mesocolon.INTERNAL EVIDENCE OF INJURY: Aside from the stab wounds of the chest and abdomen, there are no other internal traumatic injuries involving the thoracic or abdominal viscera.SYSTEMIC AND ORGAN REVIEW: Autopsy findings, or lack of them, considered apart from those already stated. The following observations pertain to findings other than the injuries and changes that are described above.MUSCULOSKELETAL SYSTEM--SUBCUTANEOUS TISSUE-SKIN: Anatomic except as otherwise stated or implied.HEAD--CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM: The brain weighs 1,400 grams. The external indications of injury as well as the deep scalp and subgaleal hemorrhage have been described above. There is no hemorrhage into the temporal muscle or the orbits. There are no tears of the dura mater and no recent epidural, subdural, or subarachnoid hemorrhage. The dura is stripped revealing no fractures of the bones of the calvarium or base of the skull. The pituitary gland is normally situated in the sella turcica and is not enlarged. The cranial nerves are enumerated and they are intact, symmetrical and anatomic in size, location and course. The component vessels of the circle of Willis are identified and they are anatomic in size, course and configuration. The blood vessels are intact, free of aneurysm or other anomaly, are non-occluded, and show no significant atherosclerosis. Multiple coronal sections of the non-formalin-fixed, fresh brain shows: The cerebral hemispheres, cerebellum, brain stem, pons and medulla to show their normal anatomical structures. The cerebellar, the pontine and the medullary surfaces present no lesions. The cerebral cortex, the white matter, the ventricular system and basal ganglia are anatomic. There is no evidence of hemorrhage, cysts or neoplasm involving the brain substance. The spinal chord is not dissected.ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSES: Not dissected.RESPIRATORY SYSTEM--THROAT STRUCTURES:The oral cavity, viewed from below, is anatomic and no lesions are seen. The mucosa is intact and there are no injuries to the lips, teeth or gums. There is no obstruction of the airway. The injury to the left internal jugular vein has been previously described. The mucosa of the epiglottis, glottis, piriform sinuses, trachea and major bronchi are anatomic. No injuries are seen and there are no mucosal lesions. The hyoid bone, the thyroid, and the cricoid cartilages are intact. No hemorrhage is present in the tissues adjacent to the throat organs nor is there hemorrhage into the substance of the anatomic appearing thyroid gland. The parathyroid glands are not identified.LUNGS: The lungs weight: Right, 420 grams; left 320 grams. The external appearance and that of the sectioned surface of the left lung shows a pink external surface without evidence of injuries. There is minimal congestion, otherwise not remarkable. No foreign substance, infarction or neoplasm is encountered. The right lung shows basilar atelectasis due to the hemothorax caused by the stab wound to the right lower lobe described above. Otherwise the external appearance of the sectioned surface shows no focal lesion; there is no evidence of foreign material, infarction or neoplasm.CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM: The heart weighs 290 grams, and has a normal size and configuration. The chambers, valves, and the myocardium are anatomic. There are no focal endocardial, valvular or myocardial lesion and no congenital anomalies. Multiple transverse sections of the left and right coronary arteries reveal them to be thin-walled and patent throughout with no significant atherosclerosis. The aorta and its branches are anatomic; the perforating stab wound injury of the distal abdominal aorta has been previously described. The portal and caval veins and the major branches are anatomic.GASTROINTESTINAL SYSTEM: The mucosa and wall of the esophagus are intact and gray-pink, without lesions or injuries. The gastric mucosa is intact and pink without injury. There are no focal lesions, no residual medications, and no swallowed blood is present. Approximately 200 ml of partially digested semisolid food is found in the stomach with the presence of fragments of green leafy vegetable material compatible with spinach. The mucosa of the duodenum, jejunum, ileum, colon and rectum are intact. The lumen is patent. There are no mucosal lesions or injuries and no blood is present. The fecal content is usual in appearance. The vermiform appendix is present.HEPATOBILIARY SYSTEM--PANCREAS: The liver weighs 1,360 grams and is normal size and configuration. The subcapsular and the cut surfaces of the liver are uniformly brown-red in color, free of nodularity, and usual in appearance. The biliary duct system, including the gallbladder, is free of anomaly and no lesions are seen. The mucosa is intact and bile stained. The lumina are patent and no calculi are present. The pancreas is anatomic both externally and on cut surface.HEMOLYMPHATIC SYSTEM--ADRENAL GLAND: The spleen weighs 210 grams and has an intact capsule. Cut surface shows a normal coloration with a firm red-purple parenchyma and no focal lesions. The blood, the bone marrow and the usually-named aggregates of lymph nodes do not appear to be significantly altered. The thymus gland is not identified. The adrenal glands are usual in size and location and the cut surface presents no lesions or injuries. However, there is a small amount of left periadrenal hemorrhage due to the retro-peritoneal hemorrhage caused by the stab wound.URINARY SYSTEM: The kidneys weigh: Left, 150 grams; right, 140 grams. The kidneys are anatomic in size, shape and location. The capsules are stripped to show a smooth, pale brown surface. On section the cortex and medulla are anatomic without lesions. The calyces, the pelves, the ureters and urinary-bladder are unaltered in appearance. The mucosa is gray-pink. No calculi are present, and no blood is present. The urinary bladder contains no measurable urine.MALE GENITAL SYSTEM: The testicles, the penis, the prostate gland are anatomic to dissection.HISTOLOGY: Representatives portions of the various organs, including the larynx, are preserved in 10% formaldehyde and placed in a single storage container.TOXICOLOGY: A sample of right pleural blood as well as bile are submitted for toxicologic analysis. Stomach contents are saved.SEROLOGY: A sample of right pleural blood is submitted in the EDTA tube.RADIOLOGY: None.PHOTOGRAPHY: In addition to the routine identification photographs; pertinent photographs are taken of the external injuries.WITNESSES: Detectives Van Natter and Lange, LAPD, Robbery Homicide Division, were present during the autopsy.DIAGRAMS USED: Form 42, 16, 20F, 20H, 21 and 24 were utilized during the performance of the autopsy.OPINION: The decedent sustained multiple sharp force injuries, including multiple stab wounds involving the chest and abdomen; multiple incised-stab wounds of the neck; and multiple incised or cutting wounds. Fatal wounds were identified involving the neck where there was transection of the left internal jugular vein and stab wounds of the chest and abdomen causing intrathoracic and intraabdominal hemorrhage.Of note the cutting wounds of the left and right hands, compatible with defensive wounds. In addition there were a number of blunt force injuries to the upper extremities and hands, likewise compatible with defensive wounds. The remainder of the autopsy revealed a normal, healthy adult male with no congenital anomalies. Routine toxicologic studies were ordered."
"EXTERNAL EXAMINATION: The body is that of a 62-inch, 112-pound white female who appears the recorded age of 41 years. The body is clad in a pink and white gown. Three pillows and a blanket are also received with the body. The scalp is covered in thick brown hair with flecks of gray. The irides are brown. There is bilateral tache noire. The eyelids are yellow and dry. The eyes have a sunken appearance. The ears and nose are normally developed. The mouth has partial natural dentition. The left upper first bicuspid through the molars are absent. The left lower bicuspid is absent. The right upper second molar is capped. The left lower first molar appears decayed. The teeth are otherwise in good repair. The lips and buccal mucosa have no trauma. The neck is unremarkable except for a 2.5 cm tracheostomy scar just above the suprasternal notch. The posterior portion of the neck is unremarkable and free of scars. An obliquely oriented 6 cm surgical scar is on the anterior left chest with an underlying, implanted, medical device. The breasts are pendulous and otherwise unremarkable. There is white powder underneath the breasts. A round, 8 mm scar is on the upper central abdomen. A horizontally oriented 2.5 cm linear scar is on the central upper abdomen. A faint, approximately 1 cm scar is on the right mid lateral abdomen. There are a few striae on the hips and lower abdomen. The external genitalia are normally developed and white powder covers the perineum. The labia are dry. The urethral meatus is visible and 3.5 mm in diameter. No objects or substances are in the vagina other than a slight amount of yellow-white discharge. The anus is patent and unremarkable. Faint, pink-white, flat, 1-2 cm scars are just above the superior portion of the gluteal cleft. A 2.5 cm, somewhat square shaped, brown macule is on the left buttock. There are no open and active decubitus ulcers. The upper extremities have flexion contractures with striae on the medial portions of the upper arms. The muscles of the extremities are atrophic. The lower extremities are partially shaved. The left fifth toe is absent. The skin on the back is intact. The spine has accentuated thoracic kyphosis and lumbar lordosis. The skin demonstrates tentingRADIOGRAPHS: Postmortem radiographs show radiopaque shadows extending from the periosteum of the femurs, left tibia, and right ischial tuberosity. Diffuse, severe osteoporosis is present. The 11th thoracic vertebral body has an endplate fracture. Degenerative joint changes are noted in the acromioclavicular joints, hips, right knee, left foot, and pelvis. The left fifth toe is amputated along with the distal portion of the left fifth metatarsal. Radiographs of anterior neck structures and iliac wings are not remarkable. Calculi are seen in the urinary tract. Staples are in the gallbladder bed.INTERNAL EXAMINATION: The muscles of the chest and abdominal wall are normally developed. The subcutaneous tissues are dry. The panniculus is 2.5-3 cm. In the left chest wall is an implanted medical device with a wire extending through subcutaneous tissues of the left neck and into the left scalp. A flat, four-prong electrical device is in the subgaleal area of the left scalp. A wire then further extends into the cranial cavity. The peritoneal cavity is unremarkable and dry. There are no intraperitoneal adhesions except for an adhesion of the anterior portion of the stomach to the anterior abdominal wall in the area of the previously described round abdominal scar. The organs are in the usual anatomic relations. The pleural cavities are dry. The lungs are well aerated. The pericardial sac is remarkable for a 1 cm focal area of anterior pericardial adhesion to the anterior portion of the right ventricle. There is some lateral adhesion of the right ventricle to the right lateral portion of the pericardial sac. No other adhesions are noted. The pericardial sac is dry. The diaphragm is intact. The sternum is unremarkable. The ribs have no trauma and are normally developed with somewhat prominent costochondral junctions.CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM: The pericardial sac is remarkable as previously described. The epicardial fat of the 255 gram heart is otherwise unremarkable. The root of the aorta has no atherosclerosis. The arch and descending aorta have minimal atherosclerosis (see attached CV pathology report).RESPIRATORY SYSTEM: The right and left lungs are 260 and 245 grams, respectively. The lungs have a normal number of lobes and have light pink-red outer surfaces. The bronchi are unobstructed. The well-aerated lung parenchyma is pink-red. There are no anthracosis, tumors, cysts, or infarcts. The upper lobe bronchi contain a scant amount pearlescent fluid. The proximal bronchi contain yellow pearlescent fluid. The lower lobe distal bronchi contain some scattered areas of yellow pearlescent fluid. The alveoli otherwise contain foamy, reddish-white fluid. The pulmonary arteries contain no emboli. The lower lobes have firm areas of partial consolidation with yellow-green pearlescent fluid. The firm area of the left lower lobe is 4 x 4 x 3 cm. The right lung has scattered firm areas (<lcm).HEMOLYMPHATIC SYSTEM: The 215 gram spleen is covered in an intact, gray, somewhat wrinkled capsule. There are two hilar accessory spleens (1.4 and 1 cm in diameter). The splenic parenchyma is dark red-maroon and unremarkable. There is no interstitial fibrosis, tumors, cysts or infarcts. No enlarged lymph nodes are noted. The bone marrow of the lumbar vertebral bodies is red and soft.GENITOURINARY SYSTEM: The right and left kidneys are 100 and 130 grams, respectively. The right kidney has a central, 2-2.5 cm, obliquely oriented cleft/scar extending from the central renal pelvis to the upper lateral cortex. The brown-tan outer surfaces are otherwise slightly lobular and granular. The pelvis of the right kidney is mildly dilated. A 1 x 0.6 x 0.7 cm, green-brown stone is in the pelvis of the right kidney. The left renal pelvis has an approximately 0.5 x 0.6 x 1 cm, green-brown stone. The corticomedullary ratios are reduced. The pelvic fat is increased. The left ureter contains pearlescent fluid. The urinary bladder contains 6 cc of brown-yellow fluid. A 3.8 x 1.2 x 1 cm, white-yellow, somewhat crescent shaped stone is within the lumen of the bladder. The uterus is present and has a normal shape. The cervix is normally developed. The cervical os is large (coned) and contains mucoid fluid. There are a few minute nabothian cysts (<2 mm). A 2 cm, spherical leiomyoma is in the posterior portion of the uterine corpus. The endometrial cavity contains 3 to 4 mm thick, tan endometrium. The ovaries are present, firm and otherwise grossly unremarkable. The fallopian tubes are unremarkable except for a few adhesions of the fimbriated ends.GASTROINTESTINAL SYSTEM: The stomach contains 60 cc of green-brown fluid without any solid food fragments. The gastric mucosa is flat, congested, and green-gray. The gastric mucosa is congested. No ulcerations are noted. There are a few congested vessels with minute petechiae around the previously healed ostomy site. An 8 mm blood clot is on the gastric mucosa near the healed/healing gastrostomy site. The wall of the stomach is thin (<3mm). No perforations are noted. The esophagus is not remarkable with gray/pink mucosa. The bowel contains progressively formed feces with the rectum containing hard stool. The appendix is present, but is atrophic/small. The bowel has no perforations. An abundant amount of greenish liquid is in the duodenum. No foreign objects are noted.HEPATOBILIARY SYSTEM: The outer surface of the 965 gram liver is covered in a transparent intact capsule. There are very few inferior hepatic adhesions associated with an absent gallbladder. Surgical staples are imbedded in the area of the cystic duct. The hepatic parenchyma is brown-green with a slight pattern of congestion. The bile ducts and portal veins appear grossly unremarkable. No fibrosis, cysts or infarcts are noted. A yellow-white, round, 2 mm nodule is in the anterior portion of the right lobe of the liver.ENDOCRINE SYSTEM: The adrenals and pancreas are present and grossly unremarkable. The thyroid is mildly atrophic without nodules.MUSCULOSKELETAL SYSTEM: The upper and lower extremities are atrophic as previously described. The trunk musculature is atrophic. A 1 x 1.5 x 1 cm area of induration/calcification extends from the anterior surface of the right femur. The anterior/lateral cortical surface of the distal right femur metaphysis is rough and irregular. The cortical bone of the lumbar and thoracic vertebral bodies is thin and soft. The iliac wings have no trauma or deformity.NECK: The strap muscles of the anterior neck have intact musculature with atrophy of the musculature on the right side. The right sternocleidomastoid is moderately atrophic. There are no hemorrhages. The larynx and piriform recesses contain yellow-tan, mucoid fluid. There is yellow-green, mucoid fluid on the base of the tongue and epiglottis. The larynx contains a scant amount of fluid. The thyroid and cricoid cartilages are intact. The hyoid bone is intact. The tongue is atrophic. There is a yellow-green dry crusted material on the surface of the tongue. The posterior pharyngeal musculature appears atrophic. There are no hemorrhages. A healed tracheostomy site is on the anterior trachea. The carotid arteries and jugular veins are not remarkable. The muscles and cervical vertebral bodies of the posterior neck are not remarkable. The spinal cord and column have no trauma. The posterior laminae are soft.CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM: See neuropathology reportMICROSCOPIC EXAMINATION: (Also see neuropathology and cardiovascular pathology reports)LUNGS, LOWER LOBES: Widespread bronchopneumonia. Intraalveolar debris and bacteria.Intraalveolar foamy macrophages. Congestion. Edema.UTERUS: Late proliferative endometrium leiomyoma.ACCESSORY SPLEEN: Not remarkable.COLON: Autolysis. Melanosis.URINARY BLADDER: Chronic inflammation.OVARIES: Corpora albicantia. Follicular cyst.FALLOPIAN TUBES: Paratubal cyst. Congestion.VAGINA: Vascular congestion.ADRENAL GLANDS: Mild congestion.STOMACH, GASTROSTOMY: Clotted blood.LIVER: Focal nodular hyperplasia (single focus). Centrilobular congestion with steatosisKIDNEYS: Tubular necrosis. Mild vascular congestion.THYROID: Not remarkable.PANCREAS: Early autolysis. Mild interstitial fibrosis.EPIGLOTTIS: Focal ulceration with acute inflammation.LARYNX, RIGHT ARYEPIGLOTTIC FOLD: Not remarkable.TONGUE: No significant histologic abnormalities.FEMUR, RIGHT: Heterotopic ossification.FEMUR, THIGH, RIGHT: Heterotopic ossification.RIBS, COSTOCHONDRAL JUNCTION: No significant histologic abnormalities.BONE, THORACIC VERTEBRA: Severe osteoporosis. Unremarkable bone marrow.BREASTS: Not remarkable.AUTOPSY FINDINGS:1. Anoxic-ischemic encephalopathy (see attached neuropathology report).a. Extremity muscle atrophy and contractures.b. Bilateral bronchopneumonia.c. Osteoporosis (with Tl 1 endplate fracture).d. Urolithiasis.e. Renal scar (right).f. Heterotopic ossification.g. Degenerative joint changes.h. Glossal, pharyngeal, and neck muscle atrophy.i. Healing gastrostomy.j. Implanted electrical stimulator.k. Healed decubitus ulcer (s) and remote left fifth toe amputation.2. Dehydrationa. Vitreous chemistry: sodium 207 mmol/L, chloride 184 mmol/L, urea nitrogen 133 mg/dL, creatinine 1.3 mg/dL, glucose 57 mg/L.b. Dry skin and body cavities.c. Renal tubular necrosis.3. Toxicologya. Heart blood: acetaminophen 8.8 mg/L.b. Urine: acetaminophen detected.4. Status post cholecystectomy.5. Hyperostosis frontalis interna.6. Uterine leiomyoma.7. Cardiovascular (see attached cardiovascular pathology report).a. Heart weight 255 grams.b. Focal pericardial adhesions.c. Cardiac ion channel mutation screening: Negative.CAUSE OF DEATH: Complications of Anoxic Encephalopathy.MANNER OF DEATH: Undetermined."
"SUMMARY OF CLINICAL HISTORY: The patient was a 35-year-old African-American male with no significant past medical history who called EMS with shortness of breath and chest pain. Upon EMS arrival, patient was tachypneic at 40 breaths per minute with oxygen saturation of 90%. At the scene, EMS administered breathing treatments and checked lung sounds that did not reveal any evidence of fluid in the lung fields. EMS also reports patient was agitated upon their arrival at his residence. Two minutes after arrival at UTMB at 1500, the patient became unresponsive, apneic, and had oxygen saturations from 80-90%. The patient's heart rate decreased to asystole, was intubated with good breath sounds and air movement. Patient then had wide complex bradycardia and ACLS protocol for pulseless electrical activity was followed for 45 minutes. The patient was administered TPA with no improvement. Bedside echocardiogram showed no pericardial effusion. The patient was administered D5W, Narcan, and multiple rounds of epinephrine and atropine, calcium chloride, and sodium bicarbonate. The patient had three episodes of ventricular tachycardia/fibrillation with cardioversion/defibrillation resulting in asystole. The patient was pronounced dead at 1605 with fixed, dilated pupils, no heart sounds, no pulse and no spontaneous respirations.DESCRIPTION OF GROSS LESIONSEXTERNAL EXAMINATION: The body is that of a 35-year-old well-developed, well-nourished male. There is no peripheral edema of the extremities. There is an area of congestion/erythema on the upper chest and anterior neck. There are multiple small areas of hemorrhage bilaterally in the conjunctiva. A nasogastric tube and endotracheal tube are in place. There is an intravenous line in the right hand and left femoral region. The patient has multiple lead pads on the thorax. The patient has no other major surgical scars.INTERNAL EXAMINATION (BODY CAVITIES): The right and left pleural cavity contains 10 ml of clear fluid with no adhesions. The pericardial sac is yellow, glistening without adhesions or fibrosis and contains 30 ml of a straw colored fluid. There is minimal fluid in the peritoneal cavity.HEART: The heart is large with a normal shape and a weight of 400 grams. The pericardium is intact. The epicardial fat is diffusely firm. As patient was greater than 48 hours post mortem, no TTC staining was utilized. Upon opening the heart was grossly normal without evidence of infarction. There were slightly raised white plaques in the left ventricle wall lining. The left ventricle measures 2.2 cm, the right ventricle measures 0.2 cm, the tricuspid ring measures 11 cm, the pulmonic right measures 8 cm, the mitral ring measures 10.2 cm, and the aortic ring measures 7 cm. The foramen ovale is closed. The circulation is left dominant. Examination of the great vessels of the heart reveals minimal atherosclerosis with the area of greatest stenosis (20% stenosis) at the bifurcation of the LAD.AORTA: There is minimal atherosclerosis with no measurable plaques along the full length of the ascending and descending aorta.LUNGS: The right lung weighed 630 grams, the left weighed 710 grams. The lung parenchyma is pink without evidence of congestion of hemorrhage. The bronchi are grossly normal. In the right lung, there are two large organizing thrombo-emboli. The first is located at the first branch of the pulmonary artery with an older, organizing area adherent to the vessel wall measuring 1.0 x 1.0 x 2.5 cm. Surrounding this organizing area is a newer area of apparent thrombosis completely occluding the bifurcation. The other large organizing, adherent embolus is located further in out in the vasculature measuring approximately 1.0 x 1.0 x 1.5 cm. There are multiple other emboli located in smaller pulmonary vessels that show evidence of distending the vessels they are located inside.GASTROINTESTINAL SYSTEM: The esophagus and stomach are normal in appearance without evidence of ulcers or varices. The stomach contains approximately 800 ml, without evidence of any pills or other non-foodstuff material. The pancreas shows a normal lobular cut surface with evidence of autolysis. The duodenum, ileum, jejunum and colon are all grossly normal without evidence of abnormal vasculature or diverticula. An appendix is present and is unremarkable. The liver weighs 2850 grams and the cut surface reveals a normal liver with no fibrosis present grossly. The gallbladder is in place with a probe patent bile duct through to the ampulla of Vater.RETICULOENDOTHELIAL SYSTEM: The spleen is large weighing 340 grams, the cut surface reveals a normal appearing white and red pulp. No abnormally large lymph nodes were noted.GENITOURINARY SYSTEM: The right kidney weighs 200 grams, the left weighs 210 grams. The left kidney contains a 1.0 x 1.0 x 1.0 simple cyst containing a clear fluid. The cut surface reveals a normal appearing cortex and medulla with intact calyces. The prostate and seminal vessels were cut revealing normal appearing prostate and seminal vesicle tissue without evidence of inflammation or embolus.ENDOCRINE SYSTEM: The adrenal glands are in the normal position and weigh 8.0 grams on the right and 11.6 grams on the left. The cut surface of the adrenal glands reveals a normal appearing cortex and medulla. The thyroid gland weighs 12.4 grams and is grossly normal.EXTREMITIES: Both legs and calves were measured and found to be very similar in circumference. Both legs were also milked and produced no clots in the venous system.CLINICOPATHOLOGIC CORRELATIONThis patient died shortly after a previous pulmonary embolus completely occluded the right pulmonary artery vasculature.The most significant finding on autopsy was the presence of multiple old and new thromboemboli in the pulmonary vasculature of the right lung. The autopsy revealed evidence of multiple emboli in the right lung that were at least a few days old because the emboli that were organizing were adherent to the vessel wall. In order to be adherent to the vessel wall, the emboli must be in place long enough to evoke a fibroblast response, which takes at least a few days. The fatal event was not the old emboli in the right lung, but rather the thrombosis on top of the large saddle thrombus residing in the pulmonary artery. This created a high-pressure situation that the right ventricle could not handle resulting in cardiac dysfunction and ultimately the patient's demise.Although this case is fairly straight forward in terms of what caused the terminal event, perhaps the more interesting question is why a relatively healthy 35-year-old man would develop a fatal pulmonary embolism. Virchow's triad suggests we should investigate endothelial injury, stasis and a hypercoagulable state as possible etiologies. The age of the patient probably precludes venous stasis as the sole reason for the embolus although it could have certainly contributed. The autopsy revealed no evidence of endothelial damage in the pulmonary vasculature that would have caused the occlusion. The next logical reason would be a hypercoagulable state. Some possibilities include obesity, trauma, surgery, cancer, Factor V Leiden deficiency (as well as other inherited disorders-prothrombin gene mutation, deficiencies in protein C, protein S, or antithrombin III, and disorders of plasminogen), and Lupus anticoagulant. Of these risks factors, obesity was the only risk factor the patient was known to have. The patient had no evidence of trauma, surgery, cancer or the stigmata of SLE, therefore these are unlikely. Perhaps the most fruitful search would be an examination of the genetic possibilities for a hypercoagulable state (Factor V Leiden being the most common).In summary, this patient died of a pulmonary embolism, the underlying cause of which is currently undetermined. A definitive diagnosis may be ascertained with either genetic or other laboratory tests and a more detailed history.SUMMARY AND REFLECTIONWHAT I LEARNED FROM THIS AUTOPSY: I learned that although a cause of death may sometimes be obvious, the underlying mechanism for the death may still be elusive. This patient was an otherwise completely healthy 35-year-old man with one known risk factor for a hypercoagulable state.REMAINING UNANSWERED QUESTIONS: Basically the cause of the hypercoagulable state is undetermined. Once that question is answered I believe this autopsy will have done a great service for the patient's family."
"ABC was seen in my office for evaluation for elective surgical weight loss on October 6, 2008. ABC is a 34-year-old female with a BMI of 43. She is 5'6\"\" tall and weighs 267 pounds. She is motivated to attempt surgical weight loss because she has been overweight for over 20 years and wants to have more energy and improve her self-image. She is not only affected physically, but also socially by her weight. When she loses weight she always regains it and she always gains back more weight than she has lost. At one time, she lost 100 pounds and gained the weight back within a year. She has tried numerous commercial weight loss programs including Weight Watcher's for four months in 1992 with 15-pound weight loss, RS for two months in 1990 with six-pound weight loss, Slim Fast for six weeks in 2004 with eight-pound weight loss, an exercise program for two months in 2007 with a five-pound weight loss, Atkin's Diet for three months in 2008 with a ten-pound weight loss, and Dexatrim for one month in 2005 with a five-pound weight loss. She has also tried numerous fat reduction or fad diets. She was on Redux for nine months with a 100-pound weight loss.PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: She has a history of hypertension and shortness of breath.PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Pertinent for cholecystectomy.PSYCHOLOGICAL HISTORY: Negative.SOCIAL HISTORY: She is single. She drinks alcohol once a week. She does not smoke.FAMILY HISTORY: Pertinent for obesity and hypertension.MEDICATIONS: Include Topamax 100 mg twice daily, Zoloft 100 mg twice daily, Abilify 5 mg daily, Motrin 800 mg daily, and a multivitamin.ALLERGIES: She has no known drug allergies.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Negative.PHYSICAL EXAM: This is a pleasant female in no acute distress. Alert and oriented x 3. HEENT: Normocephalic, atraumatic. Extraocular muscles intact, nonicteric sclerae. Chest is clear to auscultation bilaterally. Cardiovascular is normal sinus rhythm. Abdomen is obese, soft, nontender and nondistended. Extremities show no edema, clubbing or cyanosis.ASSESSMENT/PLAN: This is a 34-year-old female with a BMI of 43 who is interested in surgical weight via the gastric bypass as opposed to Lap-Band. ABC will be asking for a letter of medical necessity from Dr. XYZ. She will also see my nutritionist and social worker and have an upper endoscopy. Once this is completed, we will submit her to her insurance company for approval."
"ABC was seen in my office on October 6, 2008 for evaluation for elective surgical weight loss. ABC is a 51-year-old female with a BMI today of 43. She is 5'4\"\" tall and weighs 252 pounds. She is motivated to attempt surgical weight loss because she has been overweight for over 20 years and wants to lose weight slowly and be more active with her grandchildren and be healthier. She is mainly affected physically by her weight. When she loses weight she always regains it and she always gains back more weight than she has lost. At one time, she lost 25 pounds and gained the weight back in about six months. She has done numerous commercial weight loss programs including Weight Watcher's for six months in 1997, 1999, 2002, and 2004 with a 10 to 25-pound weight loss, TOPS Program in 1998 with a ten-pound weight loss, hypnosis for four months in 1988 with a 20-pound weight loss, an exercise program for two months in 2008 with six-pound weight loss, and Six Week Body Makeover for one month in 2008 with a two-pound weight loss. She did Nutri-Systems for six months in 1995 with a 20-pound weight loss and she was under your medical supervision in 2006 where she actually gained 12 pounds. She is on Meridia from one month previously.PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: She had a negative stress test four to five years ago. She gets short of breath in walking about 30 steps. She has had non-insulin dependent diabetes for about eight years now. She has a left knee arthritis and history of hemorrhoids.PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Pertinent for laparoscopic cholecystectomy, tonsillectomy, left knee surgery, and right breast lumpectomy.PSYCHOLOGICAL HISTORY: Negative except that she was rehabilitated for alcohol addiction in 1990.SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient is married. She is an office manager for a gravel company. Her spouse is also overweight. She drinks on a weekly basis and she smokesabout two packs of cigarettes over a week's period of time. She is doing this for about 35 years.FAMILY HISTORY: Diabetes and hypertension.MEDICATIONS: Include Colestid 1 g daily, Actos 30 mg daily, Amaryl 2 mg daily, Soma, and meloxicam for her back pain.ALLERGIES: She has no allergies; however, she does get tachycardic with caffeine, Sudafed, or phenylpropanolamine.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Otherwise, negative.PHYSICAL EXAM: This is a pleasant female in no acute distress. Alert and oriented x 3. HEENT: Normocephalic, atraumatic. Extraocular muscles intact, nonicteric sclerae. Chest is clear. Abdomen is obese, soft, nontender and nondistended. Extremities show no edema, clubbing or cyanosis.ASSESSMENT/PLAN: This is a 51-year-old female with a BMI of 43 who is interested in the Lap-Band as opposed to gastric bypass. ABC will be asking for a letter of medical necessity from XYZ. She will also need an EKG and clearance for surgery. She will also see my nutritionist and social worker and once this is completed, we will submit her to her insurance company for approval."
"I had the pleasure of meeting Ms. ABC for evaluation for bariatric surgery. As you know she is a pleasant 54-year-old female who has multiple medical problems and is seeking evaluation for laparoscopic gastric banding. I saw her on October 3, 2008 in the office after she had attended a Fairfield County Bariatrics and Surgical Specialists seminar. She is 5'7\"\" tall and weighs 242 pounds. She has been overweight since age 27. She is now at her highest adult weight.PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Her medical conditions driving her toward surgery include hypercholesterolemia, hypertension, varicose veins, prior history of stroke. She denies any history of cancer. She does have a history of hepatitis which I will need to further investigate. She complains of multiple joint pains, and heavy snoring.PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Includes hysterectomy in 1995 for fibroids and varicose vein removal. She had one ovary removed at the time of the hysterectomy as well.SOCIAL HISTORY: She is a single mother of one adopted child.FAMILY HISTORY: There is a strong family history of heart disease and hypertension, as well as diabetes on both sides of her family. Her mother is alive. Her father is deceased from alcohol. She has five siblings.MEDICATIONS: As you know she takes the following medications for her diabetes, insulin 70 units/6 units times four years, aspirin 81 mg a day, Actos 15 mg, Crestor 10 mg and CellCept 500 mg two times a day.ALLERGIES: She has no known drug allergies.PHYSICAL EXAM: She is a 54-year-old obese female. She does not appear to have any significant residual deficits from her stroke. There may be slight left arm weakness.ASSESSMENT/PLAN: We will have her undergo routine nutritional and psychosocial assessment. I suspect that we can significantly improve the situation with her insulin and oral hypoglycemia, as well as hypertension, with significant weight loss. She is otherwise at increased risk for future complications given her history, and weight loss will be a good option. We will see her back in the office once she completes her preliminary workup and submit her for approval to the insurance company."
"HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Ms. A is a 55-year-old female who presented to the Bariatric Surgery Service for consideration of laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass. The patient states that she has been overweight for approximately 35 years and has tried multiple weight loss modalities in the past including Weight Watchers, NutriSystem, Jenny Craig, TOPS, cabbage diet, grape fruit diet, Slim-Fast, Richard Simmons, as well as over-the-counter measures without any long-term sustainable weight loss. At the time of presentation to the practice, she is 5 feet 6 inches tall with a weight of 285.4 pounds and a body mass index of 46. She has obesity-related comorbidities, which includes hypertension and hypercholesterolemia.PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for hypertension, for which the patient takes Norvasc and Lopressor for. She also suffers from high cholesterol and is on lovastatin for this. She has depression, for which she takes citalopram. She also stated that she had a DVT in the past prior to her hysterectomy. She also suffers from thyroid disease in the past though this is unclear, the nature of this.PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Significant for cholecystectomy in 2008 for gallstones. She also had a hysterectomy in 1994 secondary to hemorrhage. The patient denies any other abdominal surgeries.MEDICATIONS: Norvasc 10 mg p.o. daily, Lopressor tartrate 50 mg p.o. b.i.d., lovastatin 10 mg p.o. at bedtime, citalopram 10 mg p.o. daily, aspirin 500 mg three times a day, which is currently stopped, vitamin D, Premarin 0.3 mg one tablet p.o. daily, currently stopped, omega-3 fatty acids, and vitamin D 50,000 units q. weekly.ALLERGIES: The patient denies allergies to medications and to latex.SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient is a homemaker. She is married, with 2 children aged 22 and 28. She is a lifelong nonsmoker and nondrinker.FAMILY HISTORY: Significant for high blood pressure and diabetes as well as cancer on her father side. He did pass away from congestive heart failure. Mother suffers from high blood pressure, cancer, and diabetes. Her mother has passed away secondary to cancer. She has two brothers one passed away from brain cancer.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Significant for ankle swelling. The patient also wears glasses for vision and has dentures. She does complain of shortness of breath with exertion. She also suffers from hemorrhoids and frequent urination at night as well as weightbearing joint pain. The patient denies ulcerative colitis, Crohn disease, bleeding diathesis, liver disease, or kidney disease. She denies chest pain, cardiac disease, cancer, and stroke.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: The patient is a well-nourished, well-developed female, in no distress. Eye Exam: Pupils equal and reactive to light. Extraocular motions are intact. Neck Exam: No cervical lymphadenopathy. Midline trachea. No carotid bruits. Nonpalpable thyroid. Neuro Exam: Gross motor strength in the upper and lower extremities, equal bilaterally with no focal neuro deficits noted. Lung Exam: Clear breath sounds without rhonchi or wheezes. Cardiac Exam: Regular rate and rhythm without murmur or bruits. Abdominal Exam: Positive bowel sounds. Soft, nontender, obese, and nondistended abdomen. Lap cholecystectomy scars noted. No obvious hernias. No organomegaly appreciated. Lower extremity Exam: Edema 1+. Dorsalis pedis pulses 2+.ASSESSMENT: The patient is a 55-year-old female with a body mass index of 46, suffering from obesity-related comorbidities including hypertension and hypercholesterolemia, who presents to the practice for consideration of gastric bypass surgery. The patient appears to be an excellent candidate for surgery and would benefit greatly from surgical weight loss in the management of her obesity-related comorbidities.PLAN: In preparation for surgery, we will obtain the usual baseline laboratory values including baseline vitamin levels. I recommended the patient undergo an upper GI series prior to surgery due to find her upper GI anatomy. Also the patient will meet with the dietitian and psychologist as per her usual routine. I have recommended approximately six to eight weeks of Medifast for the patient to obtain a 10% preoperative weight loss in preparation for surgery."
"ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS: Morbid obesity. BMI is 51.DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: Morbid obesity. BMI is 51.PROCEDURE: Laparoscopic gastric bypass.SERVICE: Surgery.CONSULT: Anesthesia and pain.HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Ms. A is a 27-year-old woman, who suffered from morbid obesity for many years. She has made multiple attempts at nonsurgical weight loss without success. She underwent a preoperative workup and clearance for gastric bypass and was found to be an appropriate candidate. She underwent her procedure.HOSPITAL COURSE: Ms. A underwent her procedure. She tolerated without difficulty. She was admitted to the floor post procedure. Her postoperative course has been unremarkable. On postoperative day 1, she was hemodynamically stable, afebrile, normal labs, and she was started on a clear liquid diet, which she has tolerated without difficulty. She has ambulated and had no complaints. Today, on postoperative day 2, the patient continues to do well. Pain controlled with p.o. pain medicine, ambulating without difficulty, tolerating a liquid diet. At this point, it is felt that she is stable for discharge. Her drain was discontinued.DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS: Liquid diet x1 week, then advance to pureed and soft as tolerated. No heavy lifting, greater than 10 pounds x4 weeks. The patient is instructed to not engage in any strenuous activity, but maintain mobility. No driving for 1 to 2 weeks. She must be able to stop in an emergency and be off narcotic pain medicine. She may shower. She needs to keep her wounds clean and dry. She needs to follow up in my office in 1 week for postoperative evaluation. She is instructed to call for any problems of shortness of breath, chest pain, calf pain, temperature greater than 101.5, any redness, swelling, or foul smelling drainage from her wounds, intractable nausea, vomiting, and abdominal pain. She is instructed just to resume her discharge medications.DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: She was given a scripts for Lortab Elixir, Flexeril, ursodiol, and Colace."
"REASON FOR VISIT: Preop evaluation regarding gastric bypass surgery.The patient has gone through the evaluation process and has been cleared from psychological, nutritional, and cardiac standpoint, also had great success on the preop Medifast diet.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: The patient is alert and oriented x3. Temperature of 97.9, pulse of 76, blood pressure of 114/74, weight of 247.4 pounds. Abdomen: Soft, nontender, and nondistended.ASSESSMENT AND PLAN: The patient is currently in stable condition with morbid obesity, scheduled for gastric bypass surgery in less than two weeks. Risks and benefits of the procedure were reiterated with the patient and significant other and mother, which included but not limited to death, pulmonary embolism, anastomotic leak, reoperation, prolonged hospitalization, stricture, small bowel obstruction, bleeding, and infection. Questions regarding hospital course and recovery were addressed. We will continue on the Medifast diet until the time of surgery and cleared for surgery."
"HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: In short, the patient is a 55-year-old gentleman with long-standing morbid obesity, resistant to nonsurgical methods of weight loss with BMI of 69.7 with comorbidities of hypertension, atrial fibrillation, hyperlipidemia, possible sleep apnea, and also osteoarthritis of the lower extremities. He is also an ex-smoker. He is currently smoking and he is planning to quit and at least he should do this six to eight days before for multiple reasons including decreasing the DVT, PE rates and marginal ulcer problems after surgery, which will be discussed later on. PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On physical examination today, he weighs 514.8 pounds, he has gained 21 pounds since the last visit with us. His pulse is 78, temperature is 97.5, blood pressure is 132/74. Lungs are clear. He is a pleasant gentleman with stigmata of supermorbid obesity expected of his size. Abdomen is soft, nontender. No incisions. No umbilical hernia, no groin hernia, has a large abdominal pannus. No hepatosplenomegaly. Lower extremities; no pedal edema. No calf tenderness. Deep tendon reflexes are normal. Lungs are clear. S1, S2 is heard. Regular rate and rhythm. DISCUSSION: I had a long talk with the patient about laparoscopic gastric bypass possible open including risks, benefits, alternatives, need for long-term followup, need to adhere to dietary and exercise guidelines. I also explained to him complications including rare cases of death secondary to DVT, PE, leak, peritonitis, sepsis shock, multisystem organ failure, need for reoperations, need for endoscopy for bleeding or leak, operations which could be diagnostic laparoscopy, exploratory laparotomy, drainage procedure, gastrostomy, jejunostomy for feeding, bleeding requiring blood transfusion, myocardial infarction, pneumonia, atelectasis, respiratory failure requiring mechanical ventilation, rarely tracheostomy, rare cases of renal failure requiring dialysis, etc., were all discussed. All these are going to be at high risk for this patient secondary to his supermorbid obese condition. I also explained to him specific gastric bypass related complications including gastrojejunal stricture requiring endoscopic dilatation, marginal ulcer secondary to smoking or antiinflammatory drug intake, which can progress on to perforation or bleeding, small bowel obstruction secondary to internal hernia or adhesions, signs and symptoms of which are described, so the patient could alert us for earlier intervention, symptomatic gallstone formation during rapid weight loss, how to avoid it by taking ursodiol, which will be prescribed in the postoperative period. Long-term complication of gastric bypass including hair loss, excess skin, multivitamin and mineral deficiencies, protein-calorie malnutrition, weight regain, weight plateauing, psychosocial and marital issues, addiction transfer, etc., were all discussed with the patient. The patient is at higher risk than usual set of patients secondary to his supermorbid obesity of BMI nearing 70 and also major cardiopulmonary and metabolic comorbidities. Smoking of course does not help and increase the risk for cardiopulmonary complications and is at increased risk for cardiac risk. He will be seen by cardiologist, pulmonologist. He will also undergo long Medifast dieting under our guidance, which is a very low-calorie diet to decrease the size of the liver and also to optimize his cardiopulmonary and metabolic comorbidities. He will also see a psychologist, nutritionist, and exercise physiologist in preparation for surgery for a multidisciplinary approach for short and long-term success. Especially for him in view of his restricted mobility, supermorbid obesity status, and possibility of a pulmonary hypertension secondary to sleep apnea, he has been advised to have retrievable IVC filter and also will go home on Lovenox. He also needs to start exercising to increase his flexibility and muscle tone before surgery and also to start getting the habit of doing so. All these were discussed with the patient. The patient understands. He wants to go to surgery. All questions were answered. I will see him in few weeks before the planned date of surgery."
"HISTORY: The patient is scheduled for laparoscopic gastric bypass. The patient has been earlier seen by Dr. X, her physician. She has been referred to us from Family Practice. In short, she is a 33-year-old lady with a BMI of 43, otherwise healthy with unsuccessful nonsurgical methods of weight loss. She was on laparoscopic gastric bypass for weight loss. She meets the National Institute of Health Criteria. She is very well educated and motivated and has no major medical contraindications for the procedure.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On physical examination today, she weighs 216 pounds with a BMI of 43.5, pulse is 96, temperature is 97.6, blood pressure is 122/80. Lungs are clear. Abdomen is soft, nontender. There is stigmata for morbid obesity. She has cesarean section scars in the lower abdomen with no herniation. DISCUSSION: I had a long talk with the patient about laparoscopic gastric bypass, possible open including risks, benefits, alternatives, need for long-term followup, need to adhere to dietary and exercise guidelines. I also explained to her complications including rare cases of death secondary to DVT, PE, leak , peritonitis, sepsis, shock, multisystem organ failure, need for re-operation including for leak or bleeding, gastrostomy or jejunostomy for feeding, rare case of respiratory failure requiring mechanical ventilation, etc., with myocardial infarction, pneumonia, atelectasis in the postoperative period were also discussed. Short-term complications of gastric bypass including gastrojejunal stricture requiring endoscopic dilatation, marginal ulcer secondary to smoking or anti-inflammatory drug intake which can progress on to perforation or bleeding, small bowel obstruction secondary to internal hernia or adhesions, signs and symptoms of which were discussed. The patient would alert us for earlier intervention. Symptomatic gallstone formation secondary to rapid weight loss were also discussed. How to avoid it by taking ursodiol were also discussed. Long-term complications of gastric bypass including hair loss, excess skin, multivitamin and mineral deficiencies, protein-calorie malnutrition, weight regain, weight plateauing, need for major lifestyle and exercise and habit changes, avoiding pregnancy in the first two years, etc., were all stressed. The patient understands. She wants to go to surgery. In preparation of surgery, she will undergo very low-calorie diet through Medifast to decrease the size of the liver to make laparoscopic approach more successful and also to optimize her cardiopulmonary and metabolic comorbidities. She will also see a psychologist, nutritionist, and exercise physiologist for a multidisciplinary effort for short and long-term success for weight loss surgery. I will see her two weeks before the plan of surgery for further discussion and any other questions at that point of time."
"The patient is a 56-year-old female who presented to the bariatric surgery service for consideration of laparoscopic roux en Y gastric bypass surgery. She states that she has been overweight for most of her life. She attributes that to eating large portions and eating too much as well as emotional eating. She has tried multiple weight loss modalities in the past including Weight Watchers, Medifast, Meridia, South Beach, cabbage, rice, Atkins diets without any long-term sustainable weight loss. At the time of presentation to the practice she is 5 ft 6 inches tall with a weight of 257.4 pounds and a body mass index of 41.PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for hypertension. The patient takes hydrochlorothiazide for this. She also suffers from high cholesterol and takes Crestor. She also has dry eyes and uses Restasis for this. She denies liver disease, kidney disease, cirrhosis, hepatitis, diabetes mellitus, thyroid disease, bleeding disorders, prior DVT, HIV and gout. She also denies cardiac disease and prior history of cancer.PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Significant for tubal ligation in 1993. She had a hysterectomy done in 2000 and a gallbladder resection done in 2002.MEDICATIONS: Crestor 20 mg p.o. daily, hydrochlorothiazide 20 mg p.o. daily, Veramist spray 27.5 mcg daily, Restasis twice a day and ibuprofen two to three times a day.ALLERGIES TO MEDICATIONS: Bactrim which causes a rash. The patient denies latex allergy.SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient is a life long nonsmoker. She only drinks socially one to two drinks a month. She is employed as a manager at the New York department of taxation. She is married with four children.FAMILY HISTORY: Significant for type II diabetes on her mother's side as well as liver and heart failure. She has one sibling that suffers from high cholesterol and high triglycerides.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Positive for hot flashes. She also complains about snoring and occasional slight asthma. She does complain about peripheral ankle swelling and heartburn. She also gives a history of hemorrhoids and bladder infections in the past. She has weight bearing joint pain as well as low back degenerating discs. She denies obstructive sleep apnea, kidney stones, bloody bowel movements, ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease, dark tarry stools and melena.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On examination temperature is 97.7, pulse 84, blood pressure 126/80, respiratory rate was 20. Well nourished, well developed in no distress. Eye exam, pupils equal round and reactive to light. Extraocular motions intact. Neuro exam deep tendon reflexes 1+ in the lower extremities. No focal neuro deficits noted. Neck exam nonpalpable thyroid, midline trachea, no cervical lymphadenopathy, no carotid bruit. Lung exam clear breath sounds throughout without rhonchi or wheezes however diminished. Cardiac exam regular rate and rhythm without murmur or bruit. Abdominal exam positive bowel sounds, soft, nontender, obese, nondistended abdomen. No palpable tenderness. No right upper quadrant tenderness. No organomegaly appreciated. No obvious hernias noted. Lower extremity exam +1 edema noted. Positive dorsalis pedis pulses.ASSESSMENT: The patient is a 56-year-old female who presents to the bariatric surgery service with a body mass index of 41 with obesity related comorbidities. The patient is interested in gastric bypass surgery. The patient appears to be an excellent candidate and would benefit greatly in the management of her comorbidities.PLAN: In preparation for surgery will obtain the usual baseline laboratory values including baseline vitamin levels. Will proceed with our usual work up with an upper GI series as well as consultations with the dietician and the psychologist preoperatively. I have recommended six weeks of Medifast for the patient to obtain a 10% preoperative weight loss."
"FINAL DIAGNOSES1. Morbid obesity, status post laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass. 2. Hypertension. 3. Obstructive sleep apnea, on CPAP.OPERATION AND PROCEDURE: Laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass.BRIEF HOSPITAL COURSE SUMMARY: This is a 30-year-old male, who presented recently to the Bariatric Center for evaluation and treatment of longstanding morbid obesity and associated comorbidities. Underwent standard bariatric evaluation, consults, diagnostics, and preop Medifast induced weight loss in anticipation of elective bariatric surgery. Taken to the OR via same day surgery process for elective gastric bypass, tolerated well, recovered in the PACU, and sent to the floor for routine postoperative care. There, DVT prophylaxis was continued with subcu heparin, early and frequent mobilization, and SCDs. PCA was utilized for pain control, efficaciously, he utilized the CPAP, was monitored, and had no new cardiopulmonary complaints. Postop day #1, labs within normal limits, able to clinically start bariatric clear liquids at 2 ounces per hour, this was tolerated well. He was ambulatory, had no cardiopulmonary complaints, no unusual fever or concerning symptoms. By the second postoperative day, was able to advance to four ounces per hour, tolerated this well, and is able to discharge in stable and improved condition today. He had his drains removed today as well.DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS: Include re-appointment in the office in the next week, call in the interim if any significant concerning complaints. Scripts left in the chart for omeprazole and Lortab. Med rec sheet completed (on no meds). He will maintain bariatric clear liquids at home, goal 64 ounces per day, maintain activity at home, but no heavy lifting or straining. Can shower starting tomorrow, drain site care and wound care reviewed. He will re-appoint in the office in the next week, certainly call in the interim if any significant concerning complaints."
"REASON FOR VISIT: Lap band adjustment.HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Ms. A is status post lap band placement back in 01/09 and she is here on a band adjustment. Apparently, she had some problems previously with her adjustments and apparently she has been under a lot of stress. She was in a car accident a couple of weeks ago and she has problems, she does not feel full. She states that she is not really hungry but she does not feel full and she states that she is finding when she is hungry at night, having difficulty waiting until the morning and that she did mention that she had a candy bar and that seemed to make her feel better.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On exam, her temperature is 98, pulse 76, weight 197.7 pounds, blood pressure 102/72, BMI is 38.5, she has lost 3.8 pounds since her last visit. She was alert and oriented in no apparent distress. PROCEDURE: I was able to access her port. She does have an AP standard low profile. I aspirated 6 mL, I did add 1 mL, so she has got approximately 7 mL in her band, she did tolerate water postprocedure.ASSESSMENT: The patient is status post lap band adjustments, doing well, has a total of 7 mL within her band, tolerated water postprocedure. She will come back in two weeks for another adjustment as needed."
"HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: I have seen ABC today for her preoperative visit for weight management. I have explained to her the need for Optifast for weight loss prior to these procedures to make it safer because of the large size of her liver. She understands this.IMPRESSION/PLAN: We are going to put her on two weeks of Optifast at around 900 calories. I have also explained the risks and potential complications of laparoscopic cholecystectomy to her in detail including bleeding, infection, deep venous thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, injury to the small intestine, stomach, liver, leak from the cystic duct, common bile duct, and possible need for ERCP and further surgery. This surgery is going to be planned for October 6. This is for cholelithiasis prior to her Lap-Banding procedure.I have also reviewed with her the risks and potential complications of laparoscopic gastric banding including bleeding, infection, deep venous thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, slippage of the band, erosion of the band, injury to the esophagus, stomach, small intestine, large intestine, spleen, liver, injury to the band, port, or tubing necessitating replacement of the band, port, or tubing among other potential complications and she understands. We are going to proceed for laparoscopic gastric banding. I have reviewed her entire chart in detail. I have also gone over with her the Fairfield County Bariatrics consent form for banding and all the risks. She has also signed the St. Vincent's Hospital consent form for Lap-Banding. She has taken the preoperative quiz for banding. She has signed the preop and postop instructions, and understands them and we reviewed them. She has taken the quiz and done fairly well. We have reviewed with her any potential other issues and I have answered her questions. She is planned for surgical intervention."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Morbid obesity.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Morbid obesity.PROCEDURE: Laparoscopic antecolic antegastric Roux-en-Y gastric bypass with EEA anastomosis.ANESTHESIA: General with endotracheal intubation.INDICATION FOR PROCEDURE: This is a 30-year-old female, who has been overweight for many years. She has tried many different diets, but is unsuccessful. She has been to our Bariatric Surgery Seminar, received some handouts, and signed the consent. The risks and benefits of the procedure have been explained to the patient.PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: The patient was taken to the operating room and placed supine on the operating room table. All pressure points were carefully padded. She was given general anesthesia with endotracheal intubation. SCD stockings were placed on both legs. Foley catheter was placed for bladder decompression. The abdomen was then prepped and draped in standard sterile surgical fashion. Marcaine was then injected through umbilicus. A small incision was made. A Veress needle was introduced into the abdomen. CO2 insufflation was done to a maximum pressure of 15 mmHg. A 12-mm VersaStep port was placed through the umbilicus. I then placed a 5-mm port just anterior to the midaxillary line and just subcostal on the right side. I placed another 5-mm port in the midclavicular line just subcostal on the right side, a few centimeters below and medial to that, I placed a 12-mm VersaStep port. On the left side, just anterior to the midaxillary line and just subcostal, I placed a 5-mm port. A few centimeters below and medial to that, I placed a 15-mm port. I began by lifting up the omentum and identifying the transverse colon and lifting that up and thereby identifying my ligament of Treitz. I ran the small bowel down approximately 40 cm and divided the small bowel with a white load GIA stapler. I then divided the mesentery all the way down to the base of the mesentery with a LigaSure device. I then ran the distal bowel down, approximately 100 cm, and at 100 cm, I made a hole at the antimesenteric portion of the Roux limb and a hole in the antimesenteric portion of the duodenogastric limb, and I passed a 45 white load stapler and fired a stapler creating a side-to-side anastomosis. I reapproximated the edges of the defect. I lifted it up and stapled across it with another white load stapler. I then closed the mesenteric defect with interrupted Surgidac sutures. I divided the omentum all the way down to the colon in order to create a passageway for my small bowel to go antecolic. I then put the patient in reverse Trendelenburg. I placed a liver retractor, identified, and dissected the angle of His. I then dissected on the lesser curve, approximately 2.5 cm below the gastroesophageal junction, and got into a lesser space. I fired transversely across the stomach with a 45 blue load stapler. I then used two fires of the 60 blue load with SeamGuard to go up into my angle of His, thereby creating my gastric pouch. I then made a hole at the base of the gastric pouch and had Anesthesia remove the bougie and place the OG tube connected to the anvil. I pulled the anvil into place, and I then opened up my 15-mm port site and passed my EEA stapler. I passed that in the end of my Roux limb and had the spike come out antimesenteric. I joined the spike with the anvil and fired a stapler creating an end-to-side anastomosis, then divided across the redundant portion of my Roux limb with a white load GI stapler, and removed it with an Endocatch bag. I put some additional 2-0 Vicryl sutures in the anastomosis for further security. I then placed a bowel clamp across the bowel. I went above and passed an EGD scope into the mouth down to the esophagus and into the gastric pouch. I distended gastric pouch with air. There was no air leak seen. I could pass the scope easily through the anastomosis. There was no bleeding seen through the scope. We closed the 15-mm port site with interrupted 0 Vicryl suture utilizing Carter-Thomason. I copiously irrigated out that incision with about 2 L of saline. I then closed the skin of all incisions with running Monocryl. Sponge, instrument, and needle counts were correct at the end of the case. The patient tolerated the procedure well without any complications."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Morbid obesity. POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Morbid obesity. PROCEDURE: Laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass, antecolic, antegastric with 25-mm EEA anastamosis, esophagogastroduodenoscopy. ANESTHESIA: General with endotracheal intubation. INDICATIONS FOR PROCEDURE: This is a 50-year-old male who has been overweight for many years and has tried multiple different weight loss diets and programs. The patient has now begun to have comorbidities related to the obesity. The patient has attended our bariatric seminar and met with our dietician and psychologist. The patient has read through our comprehensive handout and understands the risks and benefits of bypass surgery as evidenced by the signing of our consent form.PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: The risks and benefits were explained to the patient. Consent was obtained. The patient was taken to the operating room and placed supine on the operating room table. General anesthesia was administered with endotracheal intubation. A Foley catheter was placed for bladder decompression. All pressure points were carefully padded, and sequential compression devices were placed on the legs. The abdomen was prepped and draped in standard, sterile, surgical fashion. Marcaine was injected into the umbilicus. A small incision was made, and a Veress needle was introduced into the abdomen. CO2 insufflation was done to a maximum pressure of 15 mmHg. Then a 12-mm VersaStep port was placed in the umbilicus. Laparoscopic examination showed no injuries from entry. I then placed a 5-mm port in the left side just subcostal and just anterior to the mid-axillary line. A few centimeters below and medial to that, I placed a 15-mm port. On the right side just subcostal and anterior to the mid-axillary line, I placed another 5-mm port. Another 5-mm port was placed just to the right of the midline and just subxiphoid, and a few centimeters below that, a 12-mm VersaStep port was placed. We began by identifying the colon and lifting the transverse colon up and thereby identifying the ligament of Treitz. I ran the small bowel down approximately 40 cm. I divided the small bowel with a white load GIA stapler. I then divided across the mesentery utilizing a LigaSure device all the way down to its base. I then ran the distal bowel down 100 cm, and at 100 cm I made a hole in the Roux limb and a hole in the duodenogastric limb. I placed a 45 white load stapler into the abdomen and put 1 side of the white load stapler in the duodenogastric limb and 1 side in the Roux limb. I fired the stapler, thereby creating a side-to-side anastomosis. I reapproximated the defect with interrupted Surgidac sutures and then stapled across it with a white load GIA stapler. I then did a Brolin anti-obstruction stitch with an interrupted Surgidac suture. I then closed the mesenteric defect with interrupted Surgidac sutures. I then divided the omentum all the way down to the transverse colon in order to create a pathway to place the Roux limb antecolic, antegastric. I then placed the patient in reverse Trendelenburg position and placed a liver retractor. I first identified the angle of His and made sure that it was clearly visible. I then had Anesthesia drop a balloon into the stomach and blow it up to 30 cc. Below that, I then cleared the mesentery at the lesser curve and got behind the stomach into the lesser space. I then fired a blue load stapler transversely across the stomach, after checking with Anesthesia that everything had been removed from the stomach. I then made a hole into the stomach at the mid portion of the superior staple line. I then made an incision on the greater curve and made a gastrotomy. I then brought a 25 EEA anvil with a stitch attached to it into the abdominal cavity. I placed an angulating grasper into the gastrotomy above my staple line and had it come out through the gastrotomy at the greater curve. I grabbed the anvil and pulled it through the greater curve gastrotomy and had the stem come out through the superior staple line so that the stem was now coming out through the base of my soon-to-be gastric pouch.I then completed my pouch by firing 60 blue loads with SeamGuard cephalad up and through the angle of His. After creating the pouch, I then closed the gastrotomy on the greater curve by firing across it with blue load stapler. Once this had been done, I brought up the Roux limb. I cut a hole in the antimesenteric portion of the Roux limb and passed a 25 EEA stapler into the abdomen through the 15-mm port site and had it go in through the enterotomy. I had a spike come out on the antimesenteric portion of the small bowel. I removed the spike and joined the stapler with the anvil and fired the stapler, thereby creating the anastomosis, and then removed the EEA stapler. I divided the end of the redundant portion of the Roux limb that had the enterotomy utilizing a white load stapler and removed that through the 15-mm port site. I then had a pretty straight shot from the pouch into the small bowel. I put additional 3-0 Vicryl sutures in the corners in order to take off any tension and further secure the wound. I then put a bowel clamp on the bowel. I went above and performed an esophagogastroduodenoscopy. I placed a scope into the mouth and down through the esophagus with ease. I passed it into the stomach pouch. I distended up the pouch with air. There was no air leak seen laparoscopically. I was able to pass the scope easily across the anastomosis. No bleeding was seen. I then withdrew the scope and scrubbed back into the case. I closed the 15-mm port site with interrupted 0 Vicryl suture utilizing Carter-Thomason. I then put a 10-flat Jackson-Pratt through the left upper quadrant incision and sutured that in place using nylon. I then closed the skin of all incisions with a running Monocryl. Prior to closing, I irrigated the 15-mm port site with dilute Betadine. Sponge, instrument, and needle counts were correct at the end of the case. The patient tolerated the procedure well without any complications."
"HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: I have seen ABC today. He is a very pleasant gentleman who is 42 years old, 344 pounds. He is 5'9\"\". He has a BMI of 51. He has been overweight for ten years since the age of 33, at his highest he was 358 pounds, at his lowest 260. He is pursuing surgical attempts of weight loss to feel good, get healthy, and begin to exercise again. He wants to be able to exercise and play volleyball. Physically, he is sluggish. He gets tired quickly. He does not go out often. When he loses weight he always regains it and he gains back more than he lost. His biggest weight loss is 25 pounds and it was three months before he gained it back. He did six months of not drinking alcohol and not taking in many calories. He has been on multiple commercial weight loss programs including Slim Fast for one month one year ago and Atkin's Diet for one month two years ago.PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: He has difficulty climbing stairs, difficulty with airline seats, tying shoes, used to public seating, difficulty walking, high cholesterol, and high blood pressure. He has asthma and difficulty walking two blocks or going eight to ten steps. He has sleep apnea and snoring. He is a diabetic, on medication. He has joint pain, knee pain, back pain, foot and ankle pain, leg and foot swelling. He has hemorrhoids.PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Includes orthopedic or knee surgery.SOCIAL HISTORY: He is currently single. He drinks alcohol ten to twelve drinks a week, but does not drink five days a week and then will binge drink. He smokes one and a half pack a day for 15 years, but he has recently stopped smoking for the past two weeks.FAMILY HISTORY: Obesity, heart disease, and diabetes. Family history is negative for hypertension and stroke.CURRENT MEDICATIONS: Include Diovan, Crestor, and Tricor.MISCELLANEOUS/EATING HISTORY: He says a couple of friends of his have had heart attacks and have had died. He used to drink everyday, but stopped two years ago. He now only drinks on weekends. He is on his second week of Chantix, which is a medication to come off smoking completely. Eating, he eats bad food. He is single. He eats things like bacon, eggs, and cheese, cheeseburgers, fast food, eats four times a day, seven in the morning, at noon, 9 p.m., and 2 a.m. He currently weighs 344 pounds and 5'9\"\". His ideal body weight is 160 pounds. He is 184 pounds overweight. If he lost 70% of his excess body weight that would be 129 pounds and that would get him down to 215.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Negative for head, neck, heart, lungs, GI, GU, orthopedic, or skin. He also is positive for gout. He denies chest pain, heart attack, coronary artery disease, congestive heart failure, arrhythmia, atrial fibrillation, pacemaker, pulmonary embolism, or CVA. He denies venous insufficiency or thrombophlebitis. Denies shortness of breath, COPD, or emphysema. Denies thyroid problems, hip pain, osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, GERD, hiatal hernia, peptic ulcer disease, gallstones, infected gallbladder, pancreatitis, fatty liver, hepatitis, rectal bleeding, polyps, incontinence of stool, urinary stress incontinence, or cancer. He denies cellulitis, pseudotumor cerebri, meningitis, or encephalitis.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: He is alert and oriented x 3. Cranial nerves II-XII are intact. Neck is soft and supple. Lungs: He has positive wheezing bilaterally. Heart is regular rhythm and rate. His abdomen is soft. Extremities: He has 1+ pitting edema.IMPRESSION/PLAN: I have explained to him the risks and potential complications of laparoscopic gastric bypass in detail and these include bleeding, infection, deep venous thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, leakage from the gastrojejuno-anastomosis, jejunojejuno-anastomosis, and possible bowel obstruction among other potential complications. He understands. He wants to proceed with workup and evaluation for laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass. He will need to get a letter of approval from Dr. XYZ. He will need to see a nutritionist and mental health worker. He will need an upper endoscopy by either Dr. XYZ. He will need to go to Dr. XYZ as he previously had a sleep study. We will need another sleep study. He will need H. pylori testing, thyroid function tests, LFTs, glycosylated hemoglobin, and fasting blood sugar. After this is performed, we will submit him for insurance approval."
"He is a 22-year-old male who is 312 pounds, 6 feet tall, and a BMI of 42. He has been overweight for 15 years since the age of 8, at his highest 330 pounds, at his lowest 200. He is attempting surgical weight loss because most of his childhood and entire life, he has been overweight. He had some initial success with diets, but results are not long lasting and he gains the weight back. His goal is to have a Lap-Band surgery as a tool to help him to more healthy life and to help resolve his poor eating habits. He feels that the weight adversely affects his life physically. Most days he has back, knee, and ankle pain and makes walking upstairs quite difficult. When he loses weight he always regains it and he gains more than he lost. His biggest weight loss was 45 pounds and it was two months before he gained it back. He was on the Atkin's Diet when he was 16-years-old. He lost the 45 pounds in two months. He saw quick results. It was unsuccessful because it was just a diet as soon as he reintroduced carbs he gained the weight back. He has participated in multiple commercial weight loss programs, Weight Watcher's for four months in 2004 and lost 35 pounds over one to two months, Weight Watcher's for two months in 2007 and lost 20 pounds over one month, Atkin's Diet for three months in 2002 and lost 45 pounds over two months, Slim Fast for two months in 2003 and lost ten pounds over two months, Nutri-Systems for two months in 2005 and lost five pounds over one month, New York Sports Club exercising for seven years in 2001 to present and no weight loss, and personal trainer 25 sessions in 2007 and 2008 and no weight loss. He has tried multiple calorie and fat reduction diets including Atkin's, South Beach, and various fad diet books and magazines. He has been on medically supervised weight loss programs. PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: He has difficulty climbing stairs, difficulty with airline seats, tying shoes, used to public seating, and lifting objects off the floor. He exercises three times a week at home and does cardio. He has difficulty walking two blocks or five flights of stairs. Difficulty with snoring. He has muscle and joint pains including knee pain, back pain, foot and ankle pain, and swelling. He has gastroesophageal reflux disease.PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Includes reconstructive surgery on his right hand 13 years ago. SOCIAL HISTORY: He is currently single. He has about ten drinks a year. He had smoked significantly up until several months ago. He now smokes less than three cigarettes a day.FAMILY HISTORY: Heart disease in both grandfathers, grandmother with stroke, and a grandmother with diabetes. Denies obesity and hypertension in other family members.CURRENT MEDICATIONS: None.ALLERGIES: He is allergic to Penicillin.MISCELLANEOUS/EATING HISTORY: He has been going to support groups for seven months with Lynn Holmberg in Greenwich and he is from Eastchester, New York and he feels that we are the appropriate program. He had a poor experience with the Greenwich program. Eating history, he is not an emotional eater. Does not like sweets. He likes big portions and carbohydrates. He likes chicken and not steak. He currently weighs 312 pounds. Ideal body weight would be 170 pounds. He is 142 pounds overweight. If he lost 60% of his excess body weight that would be 84 pounds and he should weigh about 228.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Negative for head, neck, heart, lungs, GI, GU, orthopedic, and skin. Specifically denies chest pain, heart attack, coronary artery disease, congestive heart failure, arrhythmia, atrial fibrillation, pacemaker, high cholesterol, pulmonary embolism, high blood pressure, CVA, venous insufficiency, thrombophlebitis, asthma, shortness of breath, COPD, emphysema, sleep apnea, diabetes, leg and foot swelling, osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, hiatal hernia, peptic ulcer disease, gallstones, infected gallbladder, pancreatitis, fatty liver, hepatitis, hemorrhoids, rectal bleeding, polyps, incontinence of stool, urinary stress incontinence, or cancer. Denies cellulitis, pseudotumor cerebri, meningitis, or encephalitis.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: He is alert and oriented x 3. Cranial nerves II-XII are intact. Afebrile. Vital Signs are stable. Neck is soft and supple. Lungs clear to auscultation. Heart is regular rhythm and rate. His abdomen is soft and nontender. He has no palpable herniations. Extremities are nonedematous.IMPRESSION/PLAN: I have explained to him the risks and potential complications of laparoscopic gastric banding in detail including bleeding, infection, deep venous thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, slippage of the band, erosion of the band, esophageal dilatation, injury to the band, port, or tubing necessitating replacement of the band, port, or tubing, injury to the esophagus, stomach, small intestine, large intestine, spleen, or liver, and possible mortality in 1 to 2000 patients. He understands. He is going to see Dr. XYZ and receive a letter of recommendation from him. He will see Lynn Holmberg, mental health evaluation Mary Ziller, and pulmonary clearance by Dr. XYZ. He will have upper GI, ultrasound for gallstones, H. pylori testing, thyroid function tests, LFTs, glycosylated hemoglobin, and fasting blood sugar. After these are performed, we will submit him for insurance approval."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Lipodystrophy of the abdomen and thighs.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Lipodystrophy of the abdomen and thighs.OPERATION: Suction-assisted lipectomy.ANESTHESIA: General.FINDINGS AND PROCEDURE: With the patient under satisfactory general endotracheal anesthesia, the entire abdomen, flanks, perineum, and thighs to the knees were prepped and draped circumferentially in sterile fashion. After this had been completed, a #15 blade was used to make small stab wounds in the lateral hips, the pubic area, and upper edge of the umbilicus. Through these small incisions, a cannula was used to infiltrate lactated Ringers with 1000 cc was infiltrated initially into the abdomen. A 3 and 4-mm cannulas were then used to carry out the liposuction of the abdomen removing a total of 1100 cc of aspirate, which was mostly fat, little fluid, and blood. Attention was then directed to the thighs both inner and outer. A total of 1000 cc was infiltrated in both lateral thighs only about 50 cc in the medial thighs. After this had been completed, 3 and 4-mm cannulas were used to suction 650 cc from each side, approximately 50 cc in the inner thigh and 600 on each lateral thigh. The patient tolerated the procedure very well. All of this aspirate was mostly fat with little fluid and very little blood. Wounds were cleaned and steri-stripped and dressing of ABD pads and ***** was then applied. The patient tolerated the procedure very well and was sent to the recovery room in good condition."
"(Medical Transcription Sample Report)PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:1. Deformity, right breast reconstruction.2. Excess soft tissue, anterior abdomen and flank.3. Lipodystrophy of the abdomen.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:1. Deformity, right breast reconstruction.2. Excess soft tissue, anterior abdomen and flank.3. Lipodystrophy of the abdomen.PROCEDURES:1. Revision, right breast reconstruction.2. Excision, soft tissue fullness of the lateral abdomen and flank.3. Liposuction of the supraumbilical abdomen.ANESTHESIA: General.INDICATION FOR OPERATION: The patient is a 31-year-old white female who previously has undergone latissimus dorsi flap and implant, breast reconstruction. She now had lateralization of the implant with loss of medial fullness for which she desired correction. It was felt that mobilization of the implant medially would provide the patient significant improvement and this was discussed with the patient at length. The patient also had a small dog ear in the flank area on the right from the latissimus flap harvest, which was to be corrected. She had also had liposuction of the periumbilical and infraumbilical abdomen with desire to have great improvement superiorly, was felt to be a candidate for such. The above-noted procedure was discussed with the patient in detail. The risks, benefits and potential complications were discussed. She was marked in the upright position and then taken to the operating room for the above-noted procedure.OPERATIVE PROCEDURE: The patient was taken to the operating room and placed in the supine position. Following adequate induction of general LMA anesthesia, the chest and abdomen was prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion. The supraumbilical abdomen was then injected with a solution of 5% lidocaine with epinephrine, as was the dog ear. At this time, the superior central scar was then excised, dissection continued through the subcutaneous tissue, the underlying latissimus muscle until the capsule of the implant was reached. This was then opened. The implant was removed and placed on the back table in antibiotic solution. Using Bovie cautery, the medial capsule was released and undermining was then performed with release of the muscle to the level of the proposed medial projection of the breast. The inframammary fold medially was secured with 2-0 PDS suture to create greater takeoff point at this level which in the upright position and using a sizer produced a good form. The lateral pocket was diminished by series of 2-0 PDS suture to provide medialization of the implant. The implant was then placed back into the submuscular pocket with much improved positioning and medial fullness. With this completed, the implant was again removed, antibiotic irrigation was performed. A drain was placed and brought out through a separate inferior stab wound incision and hemostasis was confirmed. The implant was then replaced and the wound was then closed in layers using 2-0 PDS running suture on the muscle and 3-0 Monocryl Dermabond subcuticular sutures. The 2.5 cm dog ear was then excised into and including the subcutaneous tissue, even contouring was achieved and this was closed with two layers using 3-0 Monocryl suture. Using a #3 cannula, a superior umbilical incision, liposuction was carried out into the supraumbilical abdomen, removing approximately 40 to 50 mL of fat with improved supraumbilical contours. This was closed with 6-0 Prolene suture. The patient was placed in a compressive garment after treating the incision with Dermabond, Steri-Strips and antibiotic ointment around the drain site and umbilicus. A Kerlix dressing and a surgical bra was placed to the chest area. A compressive garment was placed. The patient was then aroused from anesthesia, extubated, and taken to the recovery room in stable condition. Sponge, needle, lap, instrument counts were all correct. The patient tolerated the procedure well. There were no complications. The estimated blood loss was approximately 25 mL."
"2-D STUDY1. Mild aortic stenosis, widely calcified, minimally restricted.2. Mild left ventricular hypertrophy but normal systolic function.3. Moderate biatrial enlargement.4. Normal right ventricle.5. Normal appearance of the tricuspid and mitral valves.6. Normal left ventricle and left ventricular systolic function.DOPPLER1. There is 1 to 2+ aortic regurgitation easily seen, but no aortic stenosis.2. Mild tricuspid regurgitation with only mild increase in right heart pressures, 30-35 mmHg maximum.SUMMARY1. Normal left ventricle.2. Moderate biatrial enlargement.3. Mild tricuspid regurgitation, but only mild increase in right heart pressures."
"2-D M-MODE: 1. Left atrial enlargement with left atrial diameter of 4.7 cm.2. Normal size right and left ventricle.3. Normal LV systolic function with left ventricular ejection fraction of 51%.4. Normal LV diastolic function.5. No pericardial effusion.6. Normal morphology of aortic valve, mitral valve, tricuspid valve, and pulmonary valve.7. PA systolic pressure is 36 mmHg.DOPPLER: 1. Mild mitral and tricuspid regurgitation.2. Trace aortic and pulmonary regurgitation."
"COMMENTS:1. The left ventricular cavity size and wall thickness appear normal. The wall motion and left ventricular systolic function appears hyperdynamic with estimated ejection fraction of 70% to 75%. There is near-cavity obliteration seen. There also appears to be increased left ventricular outflow tract gradient at the mid cavity level consistent with hyperdynamic left ventricular systolic function. There is abnormal left ventricular relaxation pattern seen as well as elevated left atrial pressures seen by Doppler examination.2. The left atrium appears mildly dilated.3. The right atrium and right ventricle appear normal.4. The aortic root appears normal.5. The aortic valve appears calcified with mild aortic valve stenosis, calculated aortic valve area is 1.3 cm square with a maximum instantaneous gradient of 34 and a mean gradient of 19 mm.6. There is mitral annular calcification extending to leaflets and supportive structures with thickening of mitral valve leaflets with mild mitral regurgitation.7. The tricuspid valve appears normal with trace tricuspid regurgitation with moderate pulmonary artery hypertension. Estimated pulmonary artery systolic pressure is 49 mmHg. Estimated right atrial pressure of 10 mmHg.8. The pulmonary valve appears normal with trace pulmonary insufficiency.9. There is no pericardial effusion or intracardiac mass seen.10. There is a color Doppler suggestive of a patent foramen ovale with lipomatous hypertrophy of the interatrial septum.11. The study was somewhat technically limited and hence subtle abnormalities could be missed from the study."
"2-D ECHOCARDIOGRAMMultiple views of the heart and great vessels reveal normal intracardiac and great vessel relationships. Cardiac function is normal. There is no significant chamber enlargement or hypertrophy. There is no pericardial effusion or vegetations seen. Doppler interrogation, including color flow imaging, reveals systemic venous return to the right atrium with normal tricuspid inflow. Pulmonary outflow is normal at the valve. Pulmonary venous return is to the left atrium. The interatrial septum is intact. Mitral inflow and ascending aorta flow are normal. The aortic valve is trileaflet. The coronary arteries appear to be normal in their origins. The aortic arch is left-sided and patent with normal descending aorta pulsatility."
"DESCRIPTION:1. Normal cardiac chambers size.2. Normal left ventricular size.3. Normal LV systolic function. Ejection fraction estimated around 60%.4. Aortic valve seen with good motion.5. Mitral valve seen with good motion.6. Tricuspid valve seen with good motion.7. No pericardial effusion or intracardiac masses.DOPPLER:1. Trace mitral regurgitation.2. Trace tricuspid regurgitation.IMPRESSION:1. Normal LV systolic function.2. Ejection fraction estimated around 60%."
"REASON FOR CONSULTATION: Abnormal echocardiogram findings and followup. Shortness of breath, congestive heart failure, and valvular insufficiency.HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is an 86-year-old female admitted for evaluation of abdominal pain and bloody stools. The patient has colitis and also diverticulitis, undergoing treatment. During the hospitalization, the patient complains of shortness of breath, which is worsening. The patient underwent an echocardiogram, which shows severe mitral regurgitation and also large pleural effusion. This consultation is for further evaluation in this regard. As per the patient, she is an 86-year-old female, has limited activity level. She has been having shortness of breath for many years. She also was told that she has a heart murmur, which was not followed through on a regular basis.CORONARY RISK FACTORS: History of hypertension, no history of diabetes mellitus, nonsmoker, cholesterol status unclear, no prior history of coronary artery disease, and family history noncontributory.FAMILY HISTORY: Nonsignificant.PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: No major surgery.MEDICATIONS: Presently on Lasix, potassium supplementation, Levaquin, hydralazine 10 mg b.i.d., antibiotic treatments, and thyroid supplementation.ALLERGIES: AMBIEN, CARDIZEM, AND IBUPROFEN.PERSONAL HISTORY: She is a nonsmoker. Does not consume alcohol. No history of recreational drug use.PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Basically GI pathology with diverticulitis, colitis, hypothyroidism, arthritis, questionable hypertension, no prior history of coronary artery disease, and heart murmur.REVIEW OF SYSTEMSCONSTITUTIONAL: Weakness, fatigue, and tiredness.HEENT: History of cataract, blurred vision, and hearing impairment.CARDIOVASCULAR: Shortness of breath and heart murmur. No coronary artery disease.RESPIRATORY: Shortness of breath. No pneumonia or valley fever.GASTROINTESTINAL: No nausea, vomiting, hematemesis, or melena.UROLOGICAL: No frequency or urgency.MUSCULOSKELETAL: Arthritis and severe muscle weakness.SKIN: Nonsignificant.NEUROLOGICAL: No TIA or CVA. No seizure disorder.ENDOCRINE/HEMATOLOGICAL: As above.PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONVITAL SIGNS: Pulse of 84, blood pressure of 168/74, afebrile, and respiratory rate 16 per minute.HEENT/NECK: Head is atraumatic and normocephalic. Neck veins flat. No significant carotid bruits appreciated.LUNGS: Air entry bilaterally fair. No obvious rales or wheezes.HEART: PMI displaced. S1, S2 with systolic murmur at the precordium, grade 2/6.ABDOMEN: Soft and nontender.EXTREMITIES: Chronic skin changes. Feeble pulses distally. No clubbing or cyanosis.DIAGNOSTIC DATA: EKG: Normal sinus rhythm. No acute ST-T changes.Echocardiogram report was reviewed.LABORATORY DATA: H&H 13 and 39. BUN and creatinine within normal limits. Potassium within normal limits. BNP 9290.IMPRESSION:1. The patient admitted for gastrointestinal pathology, under working treatment.2. History of prior heart murmur with echocardiogram findings as above. Basically revealed normal left ventricular function with left atrial enlargement, large pleural effusion, and severe mitral regurgitation and tricuspid regurgitation.RECOMMENDATIONS:1. From cardiac standpoint, conservative treatment. Possibility of a transesophageal echocardiogram to assess valvular insufficiency adequately well discussed extensively.2. After extensive discussion, given her age 86, limited activity level, and no intention of undergoing any treatment in this regard from a surgical standpoint, the patient does not wish to proceed with a transesophageal echocardiogram.3. Based on the above findings, we will treat her medically with ACE inhibitors and diuretics and see how she fares. She has a normal LV function."
"HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Mr. ABC is a 60-year-old gentleman who had a markedly abnormal stress test earlier today in my office with severe chest pain after 5 minutes of exercise on the standard Bruce with horizontal ST depressions and moderate apical ischemia on stress imaging only. He required 3 sublingual nitroglycerin in total (please see also admission history and physical for full details).The patient underwent cardiac catheterization with myself today which showed mild-to-moderate left main distal disease of 30%, moderate proximal LAD with a severe mid-LAD lesion of 99%, and a mid-left circumflex lesion of 80% with normal LV function and some mild luminal irregularities in the right coronary artery with some moderate stenosis seen in the mid to distal right PDA.I discussed these results with the patient, and he had been relating to me that he was having rest anginal symptoms, as well as nocturnal anginal symptoms, and especially given the severity of the mid left anterior descending lesion, with a markedly abnormal stress test, I felt he was best suited for transfer for PCI. I discussed the case with Dr. X at Medical Center who has kindly accepted the patient in transfer.CONDITION ON TRANSFER: Stable but guarded. The patient is pain-free at this time.MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER:1. Aspirin 325 mg once a day.2. Metoprolol 50 mg once a day, but we have had to hold it because of relative bradycardia which he apparently has a history of.3. Nexium 40 mg once a day.4. Zocor 40 mg once a day, and there is a fasting lipid profile pending at the time of this dictation. I see that his LDL was 136 on May 3, 2002.5. Plavix 600 mg p.o. x1 which I am giving him tonight.Other medical history is inclusive for obstructive sleep apnea for which he is unable to tolerate positive pressure ventilation, GERD, arthritisDISPOSITION: The patient and his wife have requested and are agreeable with transfer to Medical Center, and we are enclosing the CD ROM of his images."
"CHIEF COMPLAINT: Chest pain.HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 40-year-old white male who presents with a chief complaint of \"\"chest pain\"\".The patient is diabetic and has a prior history of coronary artery disease. The patient presents today stating that his chest pain started yesterday evening and has been somewhat intermittent. The severity of the pain has progressively increased. He describes the pain as a sharp and heavy pain which radiates to his neck & left arm. He ranks the pain a 7 on a scale of 1-10. He admits some shortness of breath & diaphoresis. He states that he has had nausea & 3 episodes of vomiting tonight. He denies any fever or chills. He admits prior episodes of similar pain prior to his PTCA in 1995. He states the pain is somewhat worse with walking and seems to be relieved with rest. There is no change in pain with positioning. He states that he took 3 nitroglycerin tablets sublingually over the past 1 hour, which he states has partially relieved his pain. The patient ranks his present pain a 4 on a scale of 1-10. The most recent episode of pain has lasted one-hour.The patient denies any history of recent surgery, head trauma, recent stroke, abnormal bleeding such as blood in urine or stool or nosebleed.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: All other systems reviewed & are negative.PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Diabetes mellitus type II, hypertension, coronary artery disease, atrial fibrillation, status post PTCA in 1995 by Dr. ABC.SOCIAL HISTORY: Denies alcohol or drugs. Smokes 2 packs of cigarettes per day. Works as a banker.FAMILY HISTORY: Positive for coronary artery disease (father & brother).MEDICATIONS: Aspirin 81 milligrams QDay. Humulin N. insulin 50 units in a.m. HCTZ 50 mg QDay. Nitroglycerin 1/150 sublingually PRN chest pain.ALLERGIES: Penicillin.PHYSICAL EXAM: The patient is a 40-year-old white male.General: The patient is moderately obese but he is otherwise well developed & well nourished. He appears in moderate discomfort but there is no evidence of distress. He is alert, and oriented to person place and circumstance. There is no evidence of respiratory distress. The patient ambulates without gait abnormality or difficulty.HEENT: Normocephalic/atraumatic head. Pupils are 2.5 mm, equal round and react to light bilaterally. Extra-ocular muscles are intact bilaterally. External auditory canals are clear bilaterally. Tympanic membranes are clear and intact bilaterally.Neck: No JVD. Neck is supple. There is free range of motion & no tenderness, thyromegaly or lymphadenopathy noted.Pharynx: Clear, no erythema, exudates or tonsillar enlargement.Chest: No chest wall tenderness to palpation. Lungs: Clear to auscultation bilaterally. Heart: irregularly-irregular rate and rhythm no murmurs gallops or rubs. Normal PMIAbdomen: Soft, non-distended. No tenderness noted. No CVAT.Skin: Warm, diaphoretic, mucous membranes moist, normal turgor, no rash noted.Extremities: No gross visible deformity, free range of motion. No edema or cyanosis. No calf/ thigh tenderness or swelling.COURSE IN EMERGENCY DEPARTMENT: The patient's chest pain improved after the sublingual nitroglycerine and completely resolved with the Nitroglycerin Drip at 30 ug/Minute. He tolerated the TPA well. He was transferred to the CCU in a stable conditionPROCEDURES:10:40 PM Dr. ABC (cardiologist) apprised. He agrees with T PA per 90 minute protocol & IV nitroglycerin drip. He is to come see patient in the emergency department.10:45 PM risks & benefits of TPA discussed with patient & his family. They agree with administration of TPA and are willing to accept the risks.10:50 PM TPA started.11:20 PM Dr. ABC present in emergency department assisting with patient care.DIAGNOSTIC STUDIES:CBC: WBC 14.2, hematocrit 33.5, platelets 316Chem 7: Na 142, potassium 4.5, chloride 102, CO2 22.6, BUN 15, creatinine 1.2, glucose 186Serum Troponin I: 2.5Chest x-ray: Lung fields clear. No cardiomegaly or other acute findingsEKG: Atrial fibrillation with Ventricular rate of 65. Acute inferior ischemic changes noted i.e. ST elevation III & aVF (refer to EKG multimedia).Cardiac monitor: Sinus rhythm-atrial of fibrillation rate 60s-70s.TREATMENT:Heparin lock X. 2.Nasal cannula oxygen 3 liters/minute.Aspirin 5 grains chew & swallow.Nitroglycerin drip at 30 micrograms/minute.Cardiac monitor.TPA 90 minute protocol.Heparin IV 5000 unit bolus followed by 1000 units/hour.IMPRESSION: Acute Inferior Myocardial Infarction.PLAN: Patient admitted to Coronary Care Unit under the care of Dr. ABC."
"INDICATION: Chest pain.TYPE OF TEST: Adenosine with nuclear scan as the patient unable to walk on a treadmill.INTERPRETATION: Resting heart rate of 67, blood pressure of 129/86. EKG, normal sinus rhythm. Post-Lexiscan 0.4 mg, heart rate was 83, blood pressure 142/74. EKG remained the same. No symptoms were noted.SUMMARY:1. Nondiagnostic adenosine stress test.2. Nuclear interpretation as below.NUCLEAR INTERPRETATION: Resting and stress images were obtained with 10.4, 33.1 mCi of tetrofosmin injected intravenously by standard protocol. Nuclear myocardial perfusion scan demonstrates homogeneous and uniform distribution of the tracer uptake without any evidence of reversible or fixed defect. Gated SPECT revealed normal wall motion, ejection fraction of 58%. End-diastolic volume of 74, end-systolic volume of 31.IMPRESSION:1. Normal nuclear myocardial perfusion scan.2. Ejection fraction 58% by gated SPECT."
"ANGINA is chest pain due to a lack of oxygen to the heart most often occurring in men age 35 or older and postmenopausal women. It is usually located right under the breast bone. Physical and emotional stress, as well as eating heavy meals, can bring it on. In a healthy person, these stresses are easily handled. In a person with an underlying heart condition like coronary artery disease, heart valve problem, arrhythmias or high blood pressure, the heart doesn't get enough blood (i.e. not enough oxygen to the heart muscles). Other causes could be due to a hyperactive thyroid disorder or anemia. People more likely to have angina may also have diabetes mellitus, be overweight, smoke, have a poor diet with lots of salt and fat, fail to exercise, have a stressful workload or have a family history of coronary artery disease.SIGNS AND SYMPTOMS:* Pain in chest described as tightness, heavy pressure, aching or squeezing.* The pain sometimes radiates to the jaw, left arm, teeth and/or outer ear.* Possibly a left-sided numbness, tingling, or pain in the arm, shoulder, elbow or chest.* Occasionally a sudden difficulty in breathing occurs.* Pain may be located between the shoulder blades.TREATMENT:* Nitroglycerin relieves the immediate symptoms of angina in seconds. Carry it with you at all times.* Other medications may be prescribed for the underlying heart problems. It is important to take them as prescribed by your doctor.* Surgery may be necessary to open the blocked coronary arteries (balloon angioplasty) or to bypass them.* Correct the contributing factors you have control over. Lose weight, don't smoke, eat a low-salt, low-fat diet and avoid physical and emotional stresses that cause angina. Such stressors include anger, overworking, going between extremes in hot and cold, sudden physical exertion and high altitudes (pressurized airplanes aren't a risk). Practice relaxation techniques.* Exercise! Discuss first what you are able to do with your doctor and then go do it.* Even with treatment, angina may result in a heart attack, congestive heart failure or a fatal abnormal heartbeat. Treatment decreases the odds that these will occur.* Let your doctor know if your angina doesn't go away after 10 minutes, even when you have taken a nitroglycerin tablet. Call if you have repeated chest pains that awaken you from sleep regardless if the nitroglycerin helps. If your pain changes or feels different, call your doctor or call 911 if the pain is severe."
"HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 68-year-old woman whom I have been following, who has had angina. In any case today, she called me because she had a recurrent left arm pain after her stent, three days ago, and this persisted after two sublingual nitroglycerin when I spoke to her. I advised her to call 911, which she did. While waiting for 911, she was attended to by a physician who is her neighbor and he advised her to take the third nitroglycerin and that apparently relieved her pain. By the time she presented here, she is currently pain-free and is feeling well.PAST CARDIAC HISTORY: The patient has been having arm pain for several months. She underwent an exercise stress echocardiogram within the last several months with me, which was equivocal, but then she had a nuclear stress test which showed inferobasilar ischemia. I had originally advised her for a heart catheterization but she wanted medical therapy, so we put her on a beta-blocker. However, her arm pain symptoms accelerated and she had some jaw pain, so she presented to the emergency room. On 08/16/08, she ended up having a cardiac catheterization and that showed normal left main 80% mid LAD lesion, circumflex normal, and RCA totally occluded in the mid portion and there were collaterals from the left to the right, as well as right to right to that area. The decision was made to transfer her as she may be having collateral insufficiency from the LAD stenosis to the RCA vessel. She underwent that with drug-eluting stents on 08/16/08, with I believe three or four total placed, and was discharged on 08/17/08. She had some left arm discomfort on 08/18/08, but this was mild. Yesterday, she felt very fatigued, but no arm pain, and today, she had arm pain after walking and again it resolved now completely after three sublingual nitroglycerin. This is her usual angina. She is being admitted with unstable angina post stent.PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Longstanding hypertension, CAD as above, hyperlipidemia, and overactive bladder.MEDICATIONS:1. Detrol LA 2 mg once a day.2. Prilosec for GERD 20 mg once a day.3. Glucosamine 500/400 mg once a day for arthritis.4. Multivitamin p.o. daily.5. Nitroglycerin sublingual as available to her.6. Toprol-XL 25 mg once a day which I started although she had been bradycardic, but she seems to be tolerating.7. Aspirin 325 mg once a day.8. Plavix 75 mg once a day.9. Diovan 160 mg once a day.10. Claritin 10 mg once a day for allergic rhinitis.11. Norvasc 5 mg once a day.12. Lipitor 5 mg once a day.13. Evista 60 mg once a day.ALLERGIES: ALLERGIES TO MEDICATIONS ARE NONE. SHE DENIES ANY SHRIMP OR SEA FOOD ALLERGY.FAMILY HISTORY: Her father died of an MI in his 50s and a brother had his first MI and bypass surgery at 54.SOCIAL HISTORY: She does not smoke cigarettes, abuse alcohol, no use of illicit drugs. She is divorced and lives alone and is a retired laboratory technician from Cornell Diagnostic Laboratory.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: She denies a history of stroke, cancer, vomiting up blood, coughing up blood, bright red blood per rectum, bleeding stomach ulcers, renal calculi, cholelithiasis, asthma, emphysema, pneumonia, tuberculosis, home oxygen use or sleep apnea, although she has been told in the past that she snores and there was some question of apnea in 05/08. No morning headaches or fatigue. No psychiatric diagnosis. No psoriasis, no lupus. Remainder of the review of systems is negative x14 systems except as described above.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:GENERAL: She is a pleasant elderly woman, currently in no acute distress.VITAL SIGNS: Height 4 feet 11 inches, weight 128 pounds, temperature 97.2 degrees Fahrenheit, blood pressure 142/70, pulse 47, respiratory rate 16, and O2 saturation 100%HEENT: Cranium is normocephalic and atraumatic. She has moist mucosal membranes.NECK: Veins are not distended. There are no carotid bruits.LUNGS: Clear to auscultation and percussion without wheezes.HEART: S1 and S2, regular rate. No significant murmurs, rubs or gallops. PMI nondisplaced.ABDOMEN: Soft and nondistended. Bowel sounds present.EXTREMITIES: Without significant clubbing, cyanosis or edema. Pulses grossly intact. Bilateral groins are inspected, status post as the right femoral artery was used for access for the diagnostic cardiac catheterization here and left femoral artery used for PCI and there is no evidence of hematoma or bruit and intact distal pulses.LABORATORY DATA: EKG reviewed which shows sinus bradycardia at the rate of 51 beats per minute and no acute disease.Sodium 136, potassium 3.8, chloride 105, and bicarbonate 27. BUN 16 and creatinine 0.9. Glucose 110. Magnesium 2.5. ALT 107 and AST 65 and these were normal on 08/15/08. INR is 0.89, PTT 20.9, white blood cell count 8.2, hematocrit 31 and it was 35 on 08/15/08, and platelet count 257,000.IMPRESSION AND PLAN: The patient is a 68-year-old woman with exertional angina, characterized with arm pain, who underwent recent left anterior descending percutaneous coronary intervention and has now had recurrence of that arm pain post stenting to the left anterior descending artery and it may be that she is continuing to have collateral insufficiency of the right coronary artery. In any case, given this unstable presentation requiring three sublingual nitroglycerin before she was even pain free, I am going to admit her to the hospital and there is currently no evidence requiring acute reperfusion therapy. We will continue her beta-blocker and I cannot increase the dose because she is bradycardic already. Aspirin, Plavix, valsartan, Lipitor, and Norvasc. I am going to add Imdur and watch headaches as she apparently had some on nitro paste before, and we will rule out MI, although there is a little suspicion. I suppose it is possible that she has non-cardiac arm pain, but that seems less likely as it has been nitrate responsive and seems exertionally related and the other possibility may be that we end up needing to put in a pacemaker, so we can maximize beta-blocker use for anti-anginal effect. My concern is that there is persistent right coronary artery ischemia, not helped by left anterior descending percutaneous coronary intervention, which was severely stenotic and she does have normal LV function. She will continue the glucosamine for her arthritis, Claritin for allergies, and Detrol LA for urinary incontinence.Total patient care time in the emergency department 75 minutes. All this was discussed in detail with the patient and her daughter who expressed understanding and agreement. The patient desires full resuscitation status."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:1. Left superficial femoral artery subtotal stenosis.2. Arterial insufficiency, left lower extremity.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:1. Left superficial femoral artery subtotal stenosis.2. Arterial insufficiency, left lower extremity.OPERATIONS PERFORMED:1. Left lower extremity angiogram.2. Left superficial femoral artery laser atherectomy.3. Left superficial femoral artery percutaneous transluminal balloon angioplasty. 4. Left external iliac artery angioplasty.5. Left external iliac artery stent placement.6. Completion angiogram.FINDINGS: This patient was brought to the OR with a non-severe stenosis of the proximal left superficial femoral artery in the upper one-third of his thigh. He is also known to have severe calcific disease involving the entire left external iliac system as well as the common femoral and deep femoral arteries.Our initial plan today was to perform an atherectomy with angioplasty and stenting of the left superficial femoral artery as necessary. However, whenever we started the procedure, it became clear that there was a severe stenosis of the left superficial femoral artery at its takeoff from the left common femoral artery. The area was severely calcified including the external iliac artery extending up underneath the left inguinal ligament. Indeed, this ultimately was dissected due to manipulation of sheath catheters and sheath through the area. Ultimately, this wound up being a much more complex case than initially anticipated.Because of the above, we ultimately performed a laser atherectomy of the left superficial femoral artery, which then had to be angioplastied to obtain a satisfactory result. The completion angiogram showed that there was a dissection of the left external iliac artery, which precluded flow down into the left lower extremity. We then had to come up and perform angioplasty and stenting of the left external iliac artery as well as aggressively dilating the takeoff of the less superficial femoral artery from the common femoral artery.The left superficial femoral artery was dilated with a 6-mm balloon.The left external iliac artery and common femoral arteries were dilated with an 8-mm balloon.A 2.5-mm ClearPath laser probe was used to initially arthrectomize and debulk the superficial femoral artery starting at its takeoff from the common femoral artery and extending down to the tight stenotic area in the upper one-third of the thigh. After the laser atherectomy was performed, the area still did not look good and so an angioplasty was then done, which looked good; however, as noted above, after we had dealt with the superficial femoral artery, we then had proximal inflow problems, which had to be dealt by angioplasty and stenting.The patient had good dorsalis pedis pulses bilaterally upon completion.The right common femoral artery was used for access in an up-and-over technique.PROCEDURE: With the patient in the supine position under general anesthesia, the abdomen and lower extremities were prepped and draped in the sterile fashion.The right common femoral artery was punctured percutaneously, and a #5-French sheath was initially placed. We used a pigtail catheter to go up and over the aortic bifurcation and placed a stiff Amplatz guidewire down into the left common femoral artery. We then heparinized the patient and placed a #7-French Raby sheath over the Amplatz wire. A selective left lower extremity angiogram was then done with the above-noted findings.We then used a ClearPath 2.5-mm laser probe to laser the proximal superficial femoral artery. Because of the findings as noted above, this became more involved than initially hoped for. Once the laser atherectomy had been completed, the vessel still did not look good, so we used a 6-mm balloon to thoroughly dilate the area. Once that had been done, it looked good and we performed what we felt would be a completion angiogram only to find out that we had a more proximal problem precluding flow down into the left femoral artery.Once that was discovered, we then had to proceed with angioplasty and stenting of the left external iliac artery right down to the acetabular level.Once we had dealt with our run-on problems, we then did another completion angiogram, which showed a good flow through the entire area and down into the left lower extremity.Following completion of the above, all wires, sheaths, and catheters were removed from the right common femoral artery. Firm pressure was held over the puncture site for 20 minutes followed by application of a sterile Coverlet dressing and a firm pressure dressing.The patient tolerated the procedure well throughout. He had good palpable dorsalis pedis pulses bilaterally on completion. He was taken to the recovery room in satisfactory condition. Protamine was given to partially reverse the heparin."
"EXAM: Left heart cath, selective coronary angiogram, right common femoral angiogram, and StarClose closure of right common femoral artery.REASON FOR EXAM: Abnormal stress test and episode of shortness of breath.PROCEDURE: Right common femoral artery, 6-French sheath, JL4, JR4, and pigtail catheters were used.FINDINGS:1. Left main is a large-caliber vessel. It is angiographically free of disease,2. LAD is a large-caliber vessel. It gives rise to two diagonals and septal perforator. It erupts around the apex. LAD shows an area of 60% to 70% stenosis probably in its mid portion. The lesion is a type A finishing before the takeoff of diagonal 1. The rest of the vessel is angiographically free of disease.3. Diagonal 1 and diagonal 2 are angiographically free of disease.4. Left circumflex is a small-to-moderate caliber vessel, gives rise to 1 OM. It is angiographically free of disease.5. OM-1 is angiographically free of disease.6. RCA is a large, dominant vessel, gives rise to conus, RV marginal, PDA and one PL. RCA has a tortuous course and it has a 30% to 40% stenosis in its proximal portion.7. LVEDP is measured 40 mmHg.8. No gradient between LV and aorta is noted.Due to contrast concern due to renal function, no LV gram was performed.Following this, right common femoral angiogram was performed followed by StarClose closure of the right common femoral artery.IMPRESSION:1. 60% to 70% mid left anterior descending stenosis.2. Mild 30% to 40% stenosis of the proximal right coronary artery.3. Status post StarClose closure of the right common femoral artery.PLAN: Plan will be to perform elective PCI of the mid LAD."
"PROCEDURES PERFORMED:1. Left heart catheterization.2. Bilateral selective coronary angiography.3. Left ventriculography.4. Right heart catheterization.INDICATION: Positive nuclear stress test involving reversible ischemia of the lateral wall and the anterior wall consistent with left anterior descending artery lesion.PROCEDURE: After risks, benefits, and alternatives of the above-mentioned procedure were explained in detail to the patient, informed consent was obtained both verbally and in writing. The patient was taken to cardiac catheterization suite where the right femoral region was prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion. 1% lidocaine solution was used to infiltrate the skin overlying the right femoral artery and vein. Once adequate anesthesia has been obtained, a thin-walled #18 gauge Argon needle was used to cannulate the right femoral artery. A steel guidewire was inserted through the needle into the vascular lumen without resistance. A small nick was then made in the skin. The pressure was held. The needle was removed over the guidewire. Next, a #6 French arterial sheath was then advanced over the guidewire into the vascular lumen without resistance. The guidewire and dilator were then removed. The sheath was flushed. Next, an angulated pigtail catheter was advanced to the level of the ascending aorta under the direct fluoroscopy visualization with the use of a guidewire. The catheter was then guided into the left ventricle. The guidewire and dilator were then removed. The catheter was then flushed. LVEDP was measured and found to be favorable for a left ventriculogram. The left ventriculogram was performed in the RAO position with a single power injection of nonionic contrast material. LVEDP was then remeasured. Pullback was performed, which failed to reveal an LVAO gradient. The catheter was then removed. Next, a Judkins left #4 catheter was advanced to the level of the ascending aorta under direct fluoroscopic visualization with the use of a guidewire. The guidewire was removed. The catheter was connected to the manifold and flushed. The ostium of the left main coronary was unable to be engaged with this catheter. Thus it was removed over a guidewire. Next, a Judkins left #5 catheter was advanced to the level of the ascending aorta under direct fluoroscopic visualization with the use of a guidewire. The guidewire was removed. The catheter was connected to the manifold and flushed. Left main coronary artery was then engaged. Using hand injections of nonionic contrast material, the left coronary system was evaluated in several different views. The catheter was then removed from the ostium of the left main coronary artery and was removed over a guidewire. Next, a Judkins right #4 catheter was then advanced to the level of the ascending aorta under direct fluoroscopic visualization with the use of a guidewire. The guidewire was removed. The catheter was connected to the manifold and flushed. Using hand injections of nonionic contrast material, the right coronary system was evaluated in several different views. The catheter was then removed from the ostium of the right coronary artery and then removed. The sheath was then flushed. Because the patient did have high left ventricular end-diastolic pressures, it was determined that the patient wound need a right heart catheterization. Thus an #18 gauge Argon needle was used to cannulate the right femoral vein. A steel guidewire was inserted through the needle into the vascular lumen. The needle was removed over the guidewire. Next, an #8 French venous sheath was advanced over the guidewire into lumen without resistance. The guidewire and dilator were then removed. The sheath was then flushed. Next, a Swan-Ganz catheter was advanced to the level of 20 cm. The balloon was inflated. Under fluoroscopic visualization, the catheter was guided into the right atrium, right ventricle, and into the pulmonary artery wedge position. Hemodynamics were measured along the way. PA saturation, right atrial saturation, femoral artery saturation were all obtained. Once adequate study has been performed, the catheter was then removed. Both sheaths were flushed and found fine. The patient was returned to the cardiac catheterization holding area in stable satisfactory condition.FINDINGS:LEFT VENTRICULOGRAM: There is no evidence of any wall motion abnormalities with estimated ejection fraction of 60%. Left ventricular end-diastolic pressure was 38 mmHg preinjection and 40 mmHg postinjection. There is no LVAO. There is no mitral regurgitation. There is a trileaflet aortic valve noted.LEFT MAIN CORONARY ARTERY: The left main is a moderate caliber vessel, which bifurcates into the left anterior descending and circumflex arteries. There is no evidence of any hemodynamically significant stenosis.LEFT ANTERIOR DESCENDING: The LAD is a moderate caliber vessel, which traverses through the intraventricular groove and reaches the apex of the heart. There is a proximal 60% to 70% stenotic lesion. There was also a mid 70% to 80% stenotic lesion at the takeoff of the first and second diagonal branches.CIRCUMFLEX ARTERY: The circumflex is a moderate caliber vessel, which traverses through the atrioventricular groove. There is a mid 60% to 70% stenotic lesion followed by a second mid 90% stenotic lesion. The first obtuse marginal branch is small and the second obtuse marginal branch is large without any evidence of critical disease. The third obtuse marginal branch is also small.RIGHT CORONARY ARTERY: The RCA is a moderate caliber vessel with minor luminal irregularities throughout. There is no evidence of any critical disease. The right coronary artery is the dominant right coronary vessel.RIGHT HEART FINDINGS: Pulmonary artery pressure equals 61/23 with a mean of 44. Pulmonary artery wedge pressure equals 32. Right ventricle pressure equals 65/24. The right atrial pressure equals to 22. Cardiac output by Fick is 4.9. Cardiac index by Fick is 2.3. Hand calculated cardiac output equals 7.8. Hand calculated cardiac index equals 3.7. On 2 liters nasal cannula, pulmonary artery saturation equals 77.8%. Femoral artery saturation equals 99.1%. Pulse oximetry is 99%. Right atrial saturation is 76.3%. Systemic blood pressure is 166/58. Body surface area equals 2.12. Hemoglobin equals 12.6.IMPRESSION:1. Two-vessel coronary artery disease with a complex left anterior descending arterial lesion as well as circumflex disease.2. Normal left ventricular function with an estimated ejection fraction of 60%.3. Biventricular overload.4. Moderate pulmonary hypertension.5. There is no evidence of shunt.PLAN:1. The patient will be admitted for IV diuresis in light of the biventricular overload.2. The findings of the heart catheterization were discussed in detail with the patient and the patient's family. There is some concern with the patient's two-vessel coronary artery disease in light of the patient's diabetic history. We will obtain a surgical evaluation for the possibility of a coronary artery bypass grafting.3. The patient will remain on aggressive medical regimen including ACE inhibitor, aspirin, Plavix, and nitrate.4. The patient will need to undergo aggressive risk factor modification including weight loss and diet control.5. The patient will have an Internal Medicine evaluation regarding the patient's diabetic history."
"INDICATION: Acute coronary syndrome.CONSENT FORM: The procedure of cardiac catheterization/PCI risks included but not restricted to death, myocardial infarction, cerebrovascular accident, emergent open heart surgery, bleeding, hematoma, limb loss, renal failure requiring dialysis, blood loss, infection had been explained to him. He understands. All questions answered and is willing to sign consent.PROCEDURE PERFORMED: Selective coronary angiography of the right coronary artery, left main LAD, left circumflex artery, left ventricular catheterization, left ventricular angiography, angioplasty of totally occluded mid RCA, arthrectomy using 6-French catheter, stenting of the mid RCA, stenting of the proximal RCA, femoral angiography and Perclose hemostasis.NARRATIVE: The patient was brought to the cardiac catheterization laboratory in a fasting state. Both groins were draped and sterilized in the usual fashion. Local anesthesia was achieved with 2% lidocaine to the right groin area and a #6-French femoral sheath was inserted via modified Seldinger technique in the right common femoral artery. Selective coronary angiography was performed with #6 French JL4 catheter for the left coronary system and a #6 French JR4 catheter of the right coronary artery. Left ventricular catheterization and angiography was performed at the end of the procedure with a #6-French angle pigtail catheter.FINDINGS1. Hemodynamics systemic blood pressure 140/70 mmHg. LVEDP at the end of the procedure was 13 mmHg.2. The left main coronary artery is a large with mild diffuse disease in the distal third resulting in less than 20% angiographic stenosis at the take off of the left circumflex artery. The left circumflex artery is a large caliber vessel with diffuse disease in the ostium of the proximal segment resulting in less than 30% angiographic stenosis. The left circumflex artery gives rise to a high small obtuse marginal branch that has high moderate-to-severe ostium. The rest of the left circumflex artery has mild diffuse disease and it gives rise to a second large obtuse marginal branch that bifurcates into an upper and lower trunk.The LAD is calcified and diffusely disease in the proximal and mid portion. There is mild nonobstructive disease in the proximal LAD resulting in less than 20% angiographic stenosis.3. The right coronary artery is dominant. It is septal to be occluded in the mid portion.The findings were discussed with the patient and she opted for PCI. Angiomax bolus was started. The ACT was checked. It was higher in 300. I have given the patient 600 mg of oral Plavix.The right coronary artery was engaged using a #6-French JR4 guide catheter. I was unable to cross through this lesion using a BMW wire and a 3.0x8 mm balloon support. I was unable to cross with this lesion using a whisper wire. I was unable to cross with this lesion using Cross-IT 100 wire. I have also used second #6-French Amplatz right I guide catheter. At one time, I have lost flow in the distal vessel. The patient experienced severe chest pain, ST-segment elevation, bradycardia, and hypotension, which responded to intravenous fluids and atropine along with intravenous dopamine.Dr. X was notified.Eventually, an Asahi grand slam wire using the same 3.0 x 8 mm Voyager balloon support, I was able to cross into the distal vessel. I have performed careful balloon angioplasty of the mid RCA. I have given nitroglycerin under the nursing several times during the procedure.I then performed arthrectomy using #5-French export catheter.I performed more balloon predilation using a 3.0 x16 mm Voyager balloon. I then deployed 4.0 x15 mm, excised, and across the mid RCA at 18 atmospheres with good angiographic result. Proximal to the proximal edge of the stent, there was still some persistent haziness most likely just diseased artery/diffuse plaquing. I decided to cover this segment using a second 4.0 x 15 mm, excised, and two stents were overlapped, the overlap was postdilated using the same stent delivery balloon at high pressure with excellent angiographic result.Left ventricular catheterization was performed with #6-French angle pigtail catheter. The left ventricle is rather smaller in size. The mid inferior wall is minimally hypokinetic, ejection fraction is 70%. There is no evidence of aortic wall stenosis or mitral regurgitation.Femoral angiography revealed that the entry point was above the bifurcation of the right common femoral artery and I have performed this as Perclose hemostasis.CONCLUSIONS1. Normal left ventricular size and function. Ejection fraction is 65% to 70%. No MR.2. Successful angioplasty and stenting of the subtotally closed mid RCA. This was hard, organized thrombus, very difficult to penetrate. I have deployed two overlapping 4.0 x15 mm excised and with excellent angiographic result. The RCA is dominant.3. No moderate disease in the distal left main. Moderate disease in the ostium of the left circumflex artery. Mild disease in the proximal LAD.PLAN: Recommend smoking cessation. Continue aspirin lifelong and continue Plavix for at least 12 months."
"DIAGNOSIS: Aortic valve stenosis with coronary artery disease associated with congestive heart failure. The patient has diabetes and is morbidly obese.PROCEDURES: Aortic valve replacement using a mechanical valve and two-vessel coronary artery bypass grafting procedure using saphenous vein graft to the first obtuse marginal artery and left radial artery graft to the left anterior descending artery.ANESTHESIA: General endotrachealINCISION: Median sternotomyINDICATIONS: The patient presented with severe congestive heart failure associated with the patient's severe diabetes. The patient was found to have moderately stenotic aortic valve. In addition, The patient had significant coronary artery disease consisting of a chronically occluded right coronary artery but a very important large obtuse marginal artery coming off as the main circumflex system. The patient also has a left anterior descending artery which has moderate disease and this supplies quite a bit of collateral to the patient's right system. It was decided to perform a valve replacement as well as coronary artery bypass grafting procedure.FINDINGS: The left ventricle is certainly hypertrophiedยท The aortic valve leaflet is calcified and a severe restrictive leaflet motion. It is a tricuspid type of valve. The coronary artery consists of a large left anterior descending artery which is associated with 60% stenosis but a large obtuse marginal artery which has a tight proximal stenosis.The radial artery was used for the left anterior descending artery. Flow was excellent. Looking at the targets in the posterior descending artery territory, there did not appear to be any large branches. On the angiogram these vessels appeared to be quite small. Because this is a chronically occluded vessel and the patient has limited conduit due to the patient's massive obesity, attempt to bypass to this area was not undertaken. The patient was brought to the operating roomPROCEDURE: The patient was brought to the operating room and placed in supine position. A median sternotomy incision was carried out and conduits were taken from the left arm as well as the right thigh. The patient weighs nearly three hundred pounds. There was concern as to taking down the left internal mammary artery. Because the radial artery appeared to be a good conduit The patient would have arterial graft to the left anterior descending artery territory. The patient was cannulated after the aorta and atrium were exposed and full heparinization.The patient went on cardiopulmonary bypass and the aortic cross-clamp was applied Cardioplegia was delivered through the coronary sinuses in a retrograde manner. The patient was cooled to 32 degrees. Iced slush was applied to the heart. The aortic valve was then exposed through the aortic root by transverse incision. The valve leaflets were removed and the #23 St. Jude mechanical valve was secured into position by circumferential pledgeted sutures. At this point, aortotomy was closed.The first obtuse marginal artery was a very large target and the vein graft to this target indeed produced an excellent amount of flow. Proximal anastomosis was then carried out to the foot of the aorta. The left anterior descending artery does not have severe disease but is also a very good target and the radial artery was anastomosed to this target in an end-to-side manner. The two proximal anastomoses were then carried out to the root of the aorta.The patient came off cardiopulmonary bypass after aortic cross-clamp was released. The patient was adequately warmed. Protamine was given without adverse effect. Sternal closure was then done using wires. The subcutaneous layers were closed using Vicryl suture. The skin was approximated using staples."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Aortoiliac occlusive disease.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Aortoiliac occlusive disease.PROCEDURE PERFORMED: Aortobifemoral bypass.OPERATIVE FINDINGS: The patient was taken to the operating room. The abdominal contents were within normal limits. The aorta was of normal size and consistency consistent with arteriosclerosis. A 16x8 mm Gore-Tex graft was placed without difficulty. The femoral vessels were small somewhat thin and there was posterior packing, but satisfactory bypass was performed.PROCEDURE: The patient was taken to the operating room, placed in a supine position, and prepped and draped in the usual sterile manner with Betadine solution. A longitudinal incision was made after a Betadine-coated drape was placed over the incisional area. Longitudinal incision was made over each groin initially and carried down to the subcutaneous fat and fascia. Hemostasis was obtained with electrocautery. The common deep and superficial femoral arteries were exposed and then these incisions were covered with antibiotic soaked sponges. Attention was then turned to the abdomen, where a longitudinal incision was made from the pubis xiphoid, carried down subcutaneous fat and fascia. Hemostasis was obtained with electrocautery. The abdomen was entered above the umbilicus and then this was extended with care inferiorly as the patient has undergone previous abdominal surgery. Mild adhesions were lysed. The omentum was freed. The small and large intestine were run with no evidence of abnormalities. The liver and gallbladder were within normal limits. No abnormalities were noted. At this point, the Bookwalter retractor was placed. NG tube was placed in the stomach and placed on suction. The intestines were gently packed intraabdominally and laterally. The rest of the peritoneum was then opened. The aorta was cleared, both proximally and distally. The left iliac was completely occluded. The right iliac was to be cleansed. At this point, 5000 units of aqueous heparin was administered to allow take effect. The aorta was then clamped below the renal arteries and opened in a longitudinal fashion. A single lumbar was ligated with #3-0 Prolene. The inferior mesenteric artery was occluded intraluminally and required no suture closure. Care was taken to preserve collaterals. The aorta was measured, and a 16 mm Gore-Tex graft was brought on the field and anastomosed to the proximal aorta using #3-0 Prolene in a running fashion. Last stitch was tied. Hemostasis was excellent. The clamp was gradually removed and additional Prolene was placed in the right posterolateral aspect to obtain better hemostasis. At this point, strong pulses were present within the graft. The limbs were vented and irrigated. Using bimanual technique, the retroperitoneal tunnels were developed immediately on top of the iliac arteries into the groin. The grafts were then brought through these, care being taken to avoid twisting of the graft. At this point, the right iliac was then ligated using #0 Vicryl and the clamp was removed. Hemostasis was excellent. The right common femoral artery was then clamped proximally and distally, opened with #11 blade extended with Potts scissors. The graft was _____ and anastomosed to the artery using #5-0 Prolene in a continuous fashion with a stitch _______ running fashion. Prior to tying the last stitch, the graft and artery were vented and the last stitch was tied. Flow was initially restored proximally then distally with good results. Attention was then turned to the left groin and the artery grafts were likewise exposed, cleared proximally and distally. The artery was opened, extended with a Potts scissors and anastomosis was performed with #5-0 Prolene again with satisfactory hemostasis. The last stitch was tied. Strong pulses were present within the artery and graft itself. At this point, 25 mg of protamine was administered. The wounds were irrigated with antibiotic solution. The groins were repacked. Attention was then returned to the abdomen. The retroperitoneal area and the anastomotic sites were checked for bleeding and none was present. The shell of the aorta was closed over the proximal anastomosis and the retroperitoneum was then repaired over the remaining portions of the graft. The intraabdominal contents were then allowed to resume their normal position. There was no evidence of ischemia to the large or small bowel. At this point, the omentum and stomach were repositioned. The abdominal wall was closed in a running single layer fashion using #1 PDS. The skin was closed with skin staples. The groins were again irrigated, closed with #3-0 Vicryl and #4-0 undyed Vicryl and Steri-Strips. The patient was then taken into the recovery room in satisfactory condition after tolerating the procedure well. Sponges and instrument counts were correct. Estimated blood loss 900 cc."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS1. Aortoiliac occlusive disease bilaterally.2. Dementia.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS1. Aortoiliac occlusive disease bilaterally.2. Dementia.OPERATION: Aortobifemoral bypass surgery utilizing a bifurcated Hemashield graft.ANESTHESIA: General endotrachealESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: 300 ccINTRAVENOUS FLUIDS: 1200 cc of crystalloidURINE OUTPUT: 250 ccOPERATION IN DETAIL: After obtaining informed consent from the patient, including a thorough explanation of the risks and benefits of the aforementioned procedure, the patient was taken to the operating room and general endotracheal anesthesia was administered. Note that previously the patient was found to have some baseline dementia, although slight. The patient was seen and evaluated by the neurology team, who cleared the patient for surgery. The patient was taken to the operating room and general endotracheal anesthesia was administered. The abdomen was prepped and draped in the standard surgical fashion. We first began our dissection by using a #10-blade scalpel to incise the skin over the femoral artery in the groin bilaterally. Dissection was carried down to the level of the femoral vessels using Bovie electrocautery. The common femoral, superficial femoral, and profunda femoris arteries were encircled and dissected out peripherally. Vessel loops were placed around the aforementioned arteries. After doing so, we turned our attention to beginning our abdominal dissection. We used a #10-blade scalpel to make a midline laparotomy incision. Dissection was carried down to the level of the fascia using Bovie electrocautery. The abdomen was opened and an Omni retractor was positioned. The aorta was dissected out in the abdomen. The left femoral vein was identified. There was a nicely clampable portion of aorta visible. We, as mentioned, placed our Omni retractor and then turned our attention to performing our anastomosis. Full-dose heparin was given. Next, vascular clamps were applied to the iliac vessels as well as to the proximal aorta just below the renal vessels. A #11-blade scalpel was used to make an arteriotomy in the aorta, which was lengthened both proximally and distally using Potts scissors. We then beveled our proximal graft and constructed an end graft-to-side artery anastomosis using 3-0 Prolene in a running fashion. Upon completion of our anastomosis, we flushed our graft and noted there was no evidence of a leak from the newly constructed anastomosis. We then created our tunnels over the iliac vessels. We pulled the distal limbs over our ABF graft into the groin. We then proceeded to perform our right anastomosis first. We applied vascular clamps on the proximal common femoral, profunda, and superficial femoral arteries. We incised the common femoral artery and lengthened our arteriotomy in the vessel both proximally and distally. We then footed the graft down onto the common femoral artery to the level of the SFA and constructed our anastomosis using 6-0 Prolene in a running fashion. Upon completion of our anastomosis, we flushed the common femoral, SFA, and profunda femoris arteries. We then removed our clamp. We opened the limb more proximally in the abdomen on the right side. We then turned our attention to the left side and similarly placed our vascular clamps. We used a #11-blade scalpel to make an arteriotomy in the vessel. We then lengthened our arteriotomy both proximally and distally again onto the SFA. We constructed a footed end graft-to-side artery anastomosis using 6-0 Prolene in a running fashion. Upon completion of our anastomosis, we opened our clamps. There was no noticeable leak from the newly constructed anastomosis. We checked our proximal graft to aortic anastomosis, which was noted to be in good condition. We then gave full-dose protamine. We closed the peritoneum over the graft with 4-0 Vicryl in a running fashion. The abdomen was closed with #1 nylon in a running fashion. The skin was closed with subcuticular 4-0 Monocryl in a running subcuticular fashion. The instrument and sponge count was correct at end of case. Patient tolerated the procedure well and was transferred to the intensive care unit in good condition."
"PREPROCEDURE DIAGNOSIS: Left leg claudication.POSTPROCEDURE DIAGNOSIS: Left leg claudication.OPERATION PERFORMED: Aortogram with bilateral, segmental lower extremity run off.ANESTHESIA: Conscious sedation.INDICATION FOR PROCEDURE: The patient presents with lower extremity claudication. She is a 68-year-old woman, who is very fearful of the aforementioned procedures. Risks and benefits of the procedure were explained to her to include bleeding, infection, arterial trauma requiring surgery, access issues and recurrence. She appears to understand and agrees to proceed.DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: The patient was taken to the Angio Suite, placed in a supine position. After adequate conscious sedation, both groins were prepped with Chloraseptic prep. Cloth towels and paper drapes were placed. Local anesthesia was administered in the common femoral artery and using ultrasound guidance, the common femoral artery was accessed. Guidewire was threaded followed by a 4-French sheath. Through the 4-French sheath a 4-French Omni flush catheter was placed. The glidewire was removed and contrast administered to identify the level of the renal artery. Using power injector an aortogram proceeded.The catheter was then pulled down to the aortic bifurcation. A timed run-off view of both legs was performed and due to a very abnormal and delayed run-off in the left, I opted to perform an angiogram of the left lower extremity with an isolated approach. The catheter was pulled down to the aortic bifurcation and using a glidewire, I obtained access to the contralateral left external iliac artery. The Omni flush catheter was advanced to the left distal external iliac artery. The glidewire rather exchanged for an Amplatz stiff wire. This was left in place and the 4-French sheath removed and replaced with a 6-French destination 45-cm sheath. This was advanced into the proximal superficial femoral artery and an angiogram performed. I identified a functionally occluded distal superficial femoral artery and after obtaining views of the run off made plans for angioplasty.The patient was given 5000 units of heparin and this was allowed to circulate. A glidewire was carefully advanced using Roadmapping techniques through the functionally occluded blood vessels. A 4-mm x 4-cm angioplasty balloon was used to dilate the area in question.Final views after dilatation revealed a dissection. A search for a 5-mm stent was performed, but none of this was available. For this reason, I used a 6-mm x 80-mm marked stent and placed this at the distal superficial femoral artery. Post dilatation was performed with a 4-mm angioplasty balloon. Further views of the left lower extremity showed irregular change in the popliteal artery. No significant stenosis could be identified in the left popliteal artery and noninvasive scan. For this reason, I chose not to treat any further areas in the left leg.I then performed closure of the right femoral artery with a 6-French Angio-Seal device. Attention was turned to the left femoral artery and local anesthesia administered. Access was obtained with the ultrasound and the femoral artery identified. Guidewire was threaded followed by a 4-French sheath. This was immediately exchanged for the 6-French destination sheath after the glidewire was used to access the distal external iliac artery. The glidewire was exchanged for the Amplatz stiff wire to place the destination sheath. The destination was placed in the proximal superficial femoral artery and angiogram obtained. Initial views had been obtained from the right femoral sheath before removal.Views of the right superficial femoral artery demonstrated significant stenosis with accelerated velocities in the popliteal and superficial femoral artery. For this reason, I performed the angioplasty of the superficial femoral artery using the 4-mm balloon. A minimal dissection plane measuring less than 1 cm was identified at the proximal area of dilatation. No further significant abnormality was identified. To avoid placing a stent in the small vessel I left it alone and approached the popliteal artery. A 3-mm balloon was chosen to dilate a 50 to 79% popliteal artery stenosis. Reasonable use were obtained and possibly a 4-mm balloon could have been used. However, due to her propensity for dissection I opted not to. I then exchanged the glidewire for an O1 for Thruway guidewire using an exchange length. This was placed into the left posterior tibial artery. A 2-mm balloon was used to dilate the orifice of the posterior tibial artery. I then moved the wire to the perineal artery and dilated the proximal aspect of this vessel. Final images showed improved run-off to the right calf. The destination sheath was pulled back into the left external iliac artery and an Angio-Seal deployed.FINDINGS: Aortogram demonstrates a dual right renal artery with the inferior renal artery supplying the lower one third of the right renal parenchyma. No evidence of renal artery stenosis is noted bilaterally. There is a single left renal artery. The infrarenal aorta, both common iliac and the external iliac arteries are normal. On the right, a superficial femoral artery is widely patent and normal proximally. At the distal third of the thigh there is diffuse disease with moderate stenosis noted. Moderate stenosis is also noted in the popliteal artery and single vessel run-off through the posterior tibial artery is noted. The perineal artery is functionally occluded at the midcalf. The dorsal pedal artery filled by collateral at the high ankle level.On the left, the proximal superficial femoral artery is patent. Again, at the distal third of the thigh, there is a functional occlusion of the superficial femoral artery with poor collateralization to the high popliteal artery. This was successfully treated with angioplasty and a stent placement. The popliteal artery is diffusely diseased without focal stenosis. The tibioperoneal trunk is patent and the anterior tibial artery occluded at its orifice.IMPRESSION1. Normal bilateral renal arteries with a small accessory right renal artery.2. Normal infrarenal aorta as well as normal bilateral common and external iliac arteries.3. The proximal right renal artery is normal with moderately severe stenosis in the superficial femoral popliteal and tibial arteries. Successful angioplasty with reasonable results in the distal superficial femoral, popliteal and proximal posterior tibial artery as described.4. Normal proximal left superficial femoral artery with functional occlusion of the distal left superficial femoral artery successfully treated with angioplasty and stent placement. Run-off to the left lower extremity is via a patent perineal and posterior tibial artery."
"INDICATIONS: Peripheral vascular disease with claudication.RIGHT: 1. Normal arterial imaging of right lower extremity.2. Peak systolic velocity is normal.3. Arterial waveform is triphasic.4. Ankle brachial index is 0.96.LEFT:1. Normal arterial imaging of left lower extremity.2. Peak systolic velocity is normal.3. Arterial waveform is triphasic throughout except in posterior tibial artery where it is biphasic.4. Ankle brachial index is 1.06.IMPRESSION:Normal arterial imaging of both lower extremities."
"ASH SPLIT VENOUS PORTPROCEDURE DETAILS: The patient was taken to the operating room and placed in supine position and monitored anesthesia care provided by the anesthetist. The right anterior chest and supraclavicular fossa area, neck, and left side of chest were prepped with Betadine and draped in a sterile fashion. Xylocaine 1% was infiltrated in the supraclavicular area and anterior chest along the planned course of the catheter. The patient was placed into Trendelenburg position.The right internal jugular vein was accessed by a supraclavicular 19-gauge, thin-walled needle as demonstrated by easy withdrawal of venous blood on the first pass of the needle. Under fluoroscopic control, a J-wire was advanced into the right atrium. The needle was removed and the skin puncture site enlarged to about 8 mm with the scalpel. A second incision was made 5 cm inferior to the right midclavicular line, through which an Ash split catheter was advanced, using the tunneling rod, in a gently curving pass to exit the skin of the neck incision. The tunneling needle was removed and the catheter split up to the marker as indicated in the recommended use of the catheter.Sequential dilators were advanced over the J-wire under fluoroscopic control to dilate the subcutaneous tunnel followed by advancement of a dilator and sheath into the right superior vena cava under fluoroscopic control. The dilator and wire were removed, leaving the sheath in position, through which a double-lumen catheter was advanced into the central venous system. The sheath was peeled away, leaving the catheter into position. Each port of the catheter was flushed with dilute heparinized saline.The patient was returned to the flat position. The catheter was secured to the skin of the anterior chest using 2-0 Ethilon suture placed through the suture \"\"wings.\"\"The neck incision was closed with 3-0 Vicryl subcuticular closure and pressure dressing applied. Fluoroscopic examination of the chest revealed no evidence of pneumothorax upon completion of the procedure and the catheter was in excellent position.The patient was returned to the recovery room for postoperative care."
"HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: I was kindly asked to see Ms. ABC who is a 74-year-old woman for cardiology consultation regarding atrial fibrillation and anticoagulation after a fall.The patient is somnolent at this time, but does arouse, but is unable to provide much history. By review of the chart, it appears that she fell, which is what she states when she got up out of a rocking chair and could not get herself off the floor. She states that 1-1/2 hours later she was able to get herself off the floor.The patient denies any chest pain nor clear shortness of breath.PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Includes, end-stage renal disease from hypertension. She follows up with Dr. X in her office and has been known to have a small-to-moderate sized pericardial effusion since 11/07 that has apparently been followed and it appears that the patient was not interested in having diagnostic pericardiocentesis done. She had an echocardiogram today (please see also that report), which shows stable and small-to-moderate sized pericardial effusion without tamponade, normal left ventricular ejection fraction at 55% with mild concentric left ventricular hypertrophy, mildly dilated right ventricular size, normal right ventricular ejection fraction, moderate mitral regurgitation and severe tricuspid regurgitation with severe pulmonary hypertension, estimated PA systolic pressure of 71 mmHg when compared to the prior echocardiogram done 08/29/07, previously the mitral regurgitation was mild and previously the PA systolic pressure was estimated at 90 mmHg. Other findings were not significantly changed including pericardial effusion description. She has a history of longstanding hypertension. She has been on hemodialysis since 1997 for renal failure, history of mini-strokes documented several years ago, history of seizure disorder, she has a history of right upper extremity edema and right breast enlargement from right subclavian vein occlusion. She has a history of hypertension, depression, hyperlipidemia, on Sensipar for tertiary hyperparathyroidism.PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Includes, cholecystectomy, post fistula in the left arm, which has failed, and right arm, which is being used including number of operative procedures to the fistula. She follows up with Dr. Y regarding neurovascular surgery.MEDICATIONS: On admission:1. Norvasc 10 mg once a day.2. Aspirin 81 mg once a day.3. Colace 200 mg two at bedtime.4. Labetalol 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.5. Nephro-Vite one tablet p.o. q.a.m.6. Dilantin 100 mg p.o. t.i.d.7. Renagel 1600 mg p.o. t.i.d.8. Sensipar 120 mg p.o. every day.9. Sertraline 100 mg p.o. nightly.10. Zocor 20 mg p.o. nightly.ALLERGIES: TO MEDICATIONS PER CHART ARE NONE.FAMILY HISTORY: Unable to obtain as the patient becomes quite sleepy when I am talking.SOCIAL HISTORY: Unable to obtain as the patient becomes quite sleepy when I am talking.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Unable to obtain as the patient becomes quite sleepy when I am talking.PHYSICAL EXAM: Temperature 99.2, blood pressure ranges from 88/41 to 108/60, pulse 70, respiratory rate, 20, O2 saturation 98%. Height is 5 feet 1 inch, weight 147 pounds. On general exam, she is a pleasant elderly woman who does arouse to voice, but then becomes quite sleepy and apparently that is an improvement from when she was admitted. HEENT shows the cranium is normocephalic and atraumatic. She has moist mucosal membranes. Neck veins are difficult to assess, but do not appear clinically distended. No carotid bruits. Lungs are clear to auscultation anteriorly. No wheezes. Cardiac exam: S1, S2 regular rate, 3/6 holosystolic murmur heard with radiation from the left apex towards the left axilla. No rub, no gallop. PMI is nondisplaced. Abdomen: Soft, nondistended. CVA is benign. Extremities with no significant edema. Pulses appear grossly intact. She has evidence of right upper extremity edema, which is apparently chronic.DIAGNOSTIC DATA/LAB DATA: EKGs are reviewed including from 07/07/09 at 08:31 a.m., which shows atrial fibrillation with left anterior fascicular block, poor R-wave progression when compared to one done on 07/06/09 at 18:25, there is really no significant change. The atrial fibrillation appears present since at least on EKG done on 11/02/07 and this EKG is not significantly changed from the most recent one. Echocardiogram results as above. Chest x-ray shows mild pulmonary vascular congestion. BNP shows 3788. Sodium 136, potassium 4.5, chloride 94, bicarbonate 23, BUN 49, creatinine 5.90. Troponin was 0.40 followed by 0.34. INR 1.03 on 05/18/07. White blood cell count 9.4, hematocrit 42, platelet count 139.IMPRESSION: Ms. ABC is a 74-year-old woman admitted to the hospital with a fall and she has a history of vascular dementia, so her history is somewhat unreliable it seems and she is somnolent at that time. She does have chronic atrial fibrillation again documented at least present since 2007 and I found an EKG report by Dr. X, which shows atrial fibrillation on 08/29/07 per her report. One of the questions we were asked was whether the patient would be a candidate for Coumadin. Clearly given her history of small mini-strokes, I think Coumadin would be appropriate given this chronic atrial fibrillation, but the main issue is the fall risk. If not felt to be significant fall risk then I would strongly recommend Coumadin as the patient herself states that she has only fallen twice in the past year. I would defer that decision to Dr. Z and Dr. XY who know the patient well and it may be that physical therapy consult is appropriate to help adjudicate.RECOMMENDATIONS:1. Fall assessment as per Dr. Z and Dr. XY with possible PT consult if felt appropriate and if the patient is not felt to be at significant fall risk, would put her on Coumadin. Given her history of small strokes as documented in the chart and her chronic atrial fibrillation, she does have reasonable heart rate control on current labetalol.2. The patient has elevated BNP and I suspect that is due to her severe pulmonary hypertension and renal failure and in the light of normal LV function, I would not make any further evaluation of that other than aggressive diuresis.3. Regarding this minimal troponin elevation, I do not feel this is a diagnosis especially in the setting of pulmonary hypertension and her small-to-moderate sized stable pericardial effusion again that has been longstanding since 2007 from what I can tell and there is no evidence of tamponade. I would defer to her usual cardiologist Dr. X whether an outpatient stress evaluation is appropriate for risk stratification. I did find that the patient had a prior cardiac stress test in 08/07 where they felt that there was some subtle reversibility of the anterior wall, but it was felt that it may be artifact rather than true ischemia with normal LV function seen on that study as well.4. Continue Norvasc for history of hypertension as well as labetalol.5. The patient is felt to be a significant fall risk and will at least continue her aspirin 81 mg once a day for secondary CVA, thromboprophylaxis (albeit understanding that it is inferior to Coumadin).6. Continue Dilantin for history of seizures."
"SUBJECTIVE: The patient states that she feels better. She is on IV amiodarone, the dosage pattern is appropriate for ventricular tachycardia. Researching the available records, I find only an EMS verbal statement that tachycardia of wide complex was seen. There is no strip for me to review all available EKG tracings show a narrow complex atrial fibrillation pattern that is now converted to sinus rhythm.The patient states that for a week, she has been home postoperative from aortic valve replacement on 12/01/08 at ABC Medical Center. The aortic stenosis was secondary to a congenital bicuspid valve, by her description. She states that her shortness of breath with exertion has been stable, but has yet to improve from its preoperative condition. She has not had any decline in her postoperative period of her tolerance to exertion.The patient had noted intermittent bursts of fast heart rate at home that had been increasing over the last several days. Last night, she had a prolonged episode for which she contacted EMS. Her medications at home had been uninterrupted and without change from those listed, being Toprol-XL 100 mg q.a.m., Dyazide 25/37.5 mg, Nexium 40 mg, all taken once a day. She has been maintaining her Crestor and Zetia at 20 and 10 mg respectively. She states that she has been taking her aspirin at 325 mg q.a.m. She remains on Zyrtec 10 mg q.a.m. Her only allergy is listed to latex.OBJECTIVE:VITAL SIGNS: Temperature 36.1, heart rate 60, respirations 14, room air saturation 98%, and blood pressure 108/60. The patient shows a normal sinus rhythm on the telemetry monitor with an occasional PAC.GENERAL: She is alert and in no apparent distress.HEENT: Eyes: EOMI. PERRLA. Sclerae nonicteric. No lesions of lids, lashes, brows, or conjunctivae noted. Funduscopic examination unremarkable. Ears: Normal set, shape, TMs, canals and hearing. Nose and Sinuses: Negative. Mouth, Tongue, Teeth, and Throat: Negative except for dental work.NECK: Supple and pain free without bruit, JVD, adenopathy or thyroid abnormality.CHEST: Lungs are clear bilaterally to auscultation. The incision is well healed and without evidence of significant cellulitis.HEART: Shows a regular rate and rhythm without murmur, gallop, heave, click, thrill or rub. There is an occasional extra beat noted, which corresponds to a premature atrial contraction on the monitor.ABDOMEN: Soft and benign without hepatosplenomegaly, rebound, rigidity or guarding.EXTREMITIES: Show no evidence of DVT, acute arthritis, cellulitis or pedal edema.NEUROLOGIC: Nonfocal without lateralizing findings for cranial or peripheral nervous systems, strength, sensation, and cerebellar function. Gait and station were not tested.MENTAL STATUS: Shows the patient to be alert, coherent with full capacity for decision making.BACK: Negative to inspection or percussion.LABORATORY DATA: Shows from 12/15/08 2100, hemoglobin 11.6, white count 12.9, and platelets 126,000. INR 1.0. Electrolytes are normal with exception potassium 3.3. GFR is decreased at 50 with creatinine of 1.1. Glucose was 119. Magnesium was 2.3. Phosphorus 3.8. Calcium was slightly low at 7.8. The patient has had ionized calcium checked at Munson that was normal at 4.5 prior to her discharge. Troponin is negative x2 from 2100 and repeat at 07:32. This morning, her BNP was 163 at admission. Her admission chest x-ray was unremarkable and did not show evidence of cardiomegaly to suggest pericardial effusion. Her current EKG tracing from 05:42 shows a sinus bradycardia with Wolff-Parkinson White Pattern, a rate of 58 beats per minute, and a corrected QT interval of 557 milliseconds. Her PR interval was 0.12.We received a call from Munson Medical Center that a bed had been arranged for the patient. I contacted Dr. Varner and we reviewed the patient's managed to this point. All combined impression is that the patient was likely to not have had actual ventricular tachycardia. This is based on her EP study from October showing her to be non-inducible. In addition, she had a cardiac catheterization that showed no evidence of coronary artery disease. What is most likely that the patient has postoperative atrial fibrillation. Her WPW may have degenerated into a ventricular tachycardia, but this is unlikely. At this point, we will convert the patient from IV amiodarone to oral amiodarone and obtain an echocardiogram to verify that she does not have evidence of pericardial effusion in the postoperative period. I will recheck her potassium, magnesium, calcium, and phosphorus at this point and make adjustments if indicated. Dr. Varner will be making arrangements for an outpatient Holter monitor and further followup post-discharge.IMPRESSION:1. Atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response.2. Wolff-Parkinson White Syndrome.3. Recent aortic valve replacement with bioprosthetic Medtronic valve.4. Hyperlipidemia."
"REASON FOR CONSULTATION: Atrial fibrillation management.HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a very pleasant 62-year-old African American female with a history of hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, and CVA, referred by Dr. X for evaluation and management of atrial fibrillation. The patient states that on Monday during routine Holt exam, it was detected by Dr. X that her heart was irregular on exam. EKG obtained after that revealed atrial fibrillation, and subsequently the patient was started on Coumadin as well as having Toprol and referred for evaluation. The patient states that for the last 3 years, she has had episodes of her heart racing. It may last for minutes up to most 1 hour, and it will occasionally be related to eating a heavy meal or her caffeine or chocolate intake. Denies dyspnea, diaphoresis, presyncope or syncope with the events, and she has had no episodes of chest pain. They subsequently resolve on their own and do not limit her in anyway. However, she states that for the last several years may be up to 7 years that she can recollect that she has been fatigued, and over the past couple of years, her symptoms have become more severe. She said she can walk no more than 25 feet without becoming tired. She states that she has to rest then her symptoms will go away, but she has been limited from that standpoint. Denies peripheral edema, PND, orthopnea, abdominal pain, swelling, recent fever or chills. She actually today has no complaints, and states that she has been compliant with her medications and has started taking her Coumadin as directed.PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:1. Hypertension.2. Myocardial infarction in 2003.3. Left heart catheterization at University Hospital.4. Hypercholesterolemia.5. Arthritis.6. CVA in 2002 and in 2003 with right eye blindness.PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:1. Left total knee replacement in 2002.2. Left lower quadrant abscess drainage in 12/07FAMILY MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for lung and brain cancer. There is no history that she is aware of cardiovascular disease in her family nor has any family member had sudden cardiac death.SOCIAL HISTORY: She is retired as a cook in a school cafeteria, where she worked for 34 years. She retired 7 years ago because of low back pain. She used to smoke 2-1/2 packs per day for 32 years, but quit in 1995. Denies alcohol, and denies IV or illicit drug use.ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies.MEDICATIONS:1. Coumadin 5 mg a day.2. Toprol-XL 50 mg a day.3. Aspirin 81 mg a day.4. Hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg a day.5. Plendil 10 mg daily.6. Lipitor 40 mg daily.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: As above stating that following her stroke, she has right eye blindness, but she does have some minimal vision in her periphery.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:VITAL SIGNS: Blood pressure 138/66, pulse 96, and weight 229 pounds or 104 kg. GENERAL: A well-developed, well-nourished, middle-aged African American female in no acute distress. NECK: Supple. No JVD. No carotid bruits. CARDIOVASCULAR: Irregularly irregular rate and rhythm. Normal S1 and S2. No murmurs, gallops or rubs. LUNGS: Clear to auscultation bilaterally. ABDOMEN: Bowel sounds positive, soft, nontender, and nondistended. No masses. EXTREMITIES: No clubbing, cyanosis or edema. Pulses 2+ bilaterally.LABORATORY DATA: EKG today revealed atrial fibrillation with nonspecific lateral T-wave abnormalities and a rate of 94.IMPRESSION: The patient is a very pleasant 62-year-old African American female with atrial fibrillation of unknown duration with symptoms of paroxysmal episodes of palpitations, doing well today.RECOMMENDATIONS:1. Her rate is suboptimally controlled, we will increase her Toprol-XL to 75 mg per day.2. We will obtain a transthoracic echocardiogram to evaluate her LV function as well as her valvular function.3. We will check a thyroid function panel.4. We will continue Coumadin as directed and to follow up with Dr. X for INR management.5. Given the patient's history of a stroke in her age and recurrent atrial fibrillation, the patient should be continued on Coumadin indefinitely.6. Depending upon the results of her transthoracic echocardiogram, the patient may benefit from repeat heart catheterization. We will await results of transthoracic echocardiogram.7. We will arrange for the patient to wear a Holter monitor to monitor the rate controlled on a 24-hour period. She will then return to the electrophysiology clinic in 1 month for followup visit with Dr. Y.The patient was seen, discussed, and examined with Dr. Y in electrophysiology."
"HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Hospitalist followup is required for continuing issues with atrial flutter with rapid ventricular response, which was resistant to treatment with diltiazem and amiodarone, being followed by Dr. X of cardiology through most of the day. This afternoon, when I am seeing the patient, nursing informs me that rate has finally been controlled with esmolol, but systolic blood pressures have dropped to the 70s with a MAP of 52. Dr. X was again consulted from the bedside. We agreed to try fluid boluses and then to consider Neo-Synephrine pressure support if this is not successful. In addition, over the last 24 hours, extensive discussions have been held with the family and questions answered by nursing staff concerning the patient's possible move to Tahoe Pacific or a long-term acute care. Other issues requiring following up today are elevated transaminases, continuing fever, pneumonia, resolving adult respiratory distress syndrome, ventilatory-dependent respiratory failure, hypokalemia, non-ST-elevation MI, hypernatremia, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, BPH, atrial flutter, inferior vena cava filter, and diabetes.PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONVITAL SIGNS: T-max 103.2, blood pressure at this point is running in the 70s/mid 40s with a MAP of 52, heart rate is 100.GENERAL: The patient is much more alert appearing than my last examination of approximately 3 weeks ago. He denies any pain, appears to have intact mentation, and is in no apparent distress.EYES: Pupils round, reactive to light, anicteric with external ocular motions intact.CARDIOVASCULAR: Reveals an irregularly irregular rhythm.LUNGS: Have diminished breath sounds but are clear anteriorly.ABDOMEN: Somewhat distended but with no guarding, rebound, or obvious tenderness to palpation.EXTREMITIES: Show trace edema with no clubbing or cyanosis.NEUROLOGICAL: The patient is moving all extremities without focal neurological deficits.LABORATORY DATA: Sodium 149; this is down from 151 yesterday. Potassium 3.9, chloride 114, bicarb 25, BUN 35, creatinine 1.5 up from 1.2 yesterday, hemoglobin 12.4, hematocrit 36.3, WBC 16.5, platelets 231,000. INR 1.4. Transaminases are continuing to trend upwards of SGOT 546, SGPT 256. Also noted is a scant amount of very concentrated appearing urine in the bag.IMPRESSION: Overall impressions continues to be critically ill 67-year-old with multiple medical problems probably still showing signs of volume depletion with hypotension and atrial flutter with difficult to control rate.PLAN1. Hypotension. I would aggressively try and fluid replete the patient giving him another liter of fluids. If this does not work as discussed with Dr. X, we will start some Neo-Synephrine, but also continue with aggressive fluid repletion as I do think that indications are that with diminished and concentrated urine that he may still be down and fluids will still be required even if pressure support is started.2. Increased transaminases. Presumably this is from increased congestion. This is certainly concerning. We will continue to follow this. Ultrasound of the liver was apparently negative.3. Fever and elevated white count. The patient does have a history of pneumonia and empyema. We will continue current antibiotics per infectious disease and continue to follow the patient's white count. He is not exceptionally toxic appearing at this time. Indeed, he does look improved from my last examination.4. Ventilatory-dependent respiratory failure. The patient has received a tracheostomy since my last examination. Vent management per PMA.5. Hypokalemia. This has resolved. Continue supplementation.6. Hypernatremia. This is improving somewhat. I am hoping that with increased fluids this will continue to do so.7. Diabetes mellitus. Fingerstick blood glucoses are reviewed and are at target. We will continue current management. This is a critically ill patient with multiorgan dysfunction and signs of worsening renal, hepatic, and cardiovascular function with extremely guarded prognosis. Total critical care time spent today 37 minutes."
"HISTORY: The patient is a 5-1/2-year-old with Down syndrome, complex heart disease consisting of atrioventricular septal defect and tetralogy of Fallot with pulmonary atresia, discontinuous pulmonary arteries and bilateral superior vena cava with a left cava draining to the coronary sinus and a right aortic arch. As an infant, he was initially palliated with the right and modified Blalock-Taussig shunt in October of 2002 and underwent atrioventricular septal defect and repair of pulmonary artery unifocalization and homograft placement between the right ventricle and unifocalized pulmonary arteries. He developed a significant branch of pulmonary artery stenosis for which on 07/20/2004, he underwent a bilateral balloon pulmonary arterioplasty and stent implantation at the San Diego at Children's Hospital. This was followed on 09/13/2007 with replacement of pulmonary valve utilizing a 16-mm Contegra valve. A recent echocardiogram demonstrated a significant branch of pulmonary artery stenosis with the predicted gradient of 41 to 55 mmHg and a well-functioning Contegra valve. The lung perfusion scan from 11/14/2007 demonstrated 47% flow to the left lung and 53% flow to the right lung. The patient underwent a repeat catheterization in consideration for further balloon angioplasty of the branch pulmonary arteries.PROCEDURE: After sedation, the patient was placed under general endotracheal anesthesia breathing 50% oxygen throughout the case. The patient was prepped and draped. Cardiac catheterization was performed as outlined in the attached continuation sheets. Vascular entry was by percutaneous technique, and the patient was heparinized. Monitoring during the procedure included continuous surface ECG, continuous pulse oximetry, and cycled cuff blood pressures, in addition to intravascular pressuresUsing a 7-French sheath, 6-French wedge catheter was inserted into the right femoral vein and advanced through the right heart structures out to the branch pulmonary arteries. This catheter was exchanged over wire. A 5-French marker pigtail catheter was directed into the main pulmonary artery. A second site of venous access was achieved in and the left femoral vein with the placement of 5-French sheath.Using a 4-French sheath, a 4-French pigtail catheter was inserted in the right femoral artery and advanced retrograde to the descending aorta, ascending aorta and left ventricle. Angiogram with injection in the main pulmonary artery demonstrated stable stent configuration of the proximal branch pulmonary arteries with intimal ingrowth in the region of the proximal stents. The distal right pulmonary measured approximately 10 mm in diameter with a mid stent section measuring 9.4 mm and the proximal stent near the origin of the right pulmonary artery of 5.80 mm. The distal left pulmonary measured approximately 10 mm in diameter with a mid stent measuring 10.3 mm and the proximal stent near the origin of the left pulmonary artery is 6.8 mm diameter. The left femoral venous sheath was exchanged over wire for a 7-French sheath. Guidewires were then advanced through the respective venous sheath into the branch pulmonary arteries and simultaneous balloon pulmonary arterioplasty was performed using the two Z-Med 12 x 4 cm balloon catheter was advanced into the branch of pulmonary arteries and inflated maximally to 9 hemispheres of pressure on 5 occasions near complete disappearance of proximal waist. The balloon catheter was then exchanged for a 5-French Mistique catheter for pressure pull-back and measurement in the angiogram. The catheter's wires were then removed and final hemodynamic assessment was made with the wedge catheter.Flows were calculated by the Fick technique using a measured assumed oxygen consumption and contents derived from Radiometer Hemoximeter saturations and hemoglobin capacity.Cineangiograms were obtained with angiograph injection in the main pulmonary artery.After angiography, two normal-appearing renal collecting systems were visualized. The catheters and sheaths were removed and topical pressure applied for hemostasis. The patient was returned to the recovery room in satisfactory condition. There were no complications.DISCUSSION: Oxygen consumption was assumed to be in normal. Mixed venous saturation that was not normal with no evidence of intracardiac shunt. Left side of the heart was mildly desaturated following a part to parenchymal lung disease with the partial pressure of oxygen of only 82 mmHg. Aphasic right atrial pressures were normal with an A-wave similar to the normal right ventricular end-diastolic pressure. Left ventricular systolic pressure was moderately elevated at 70% of systemic level and there was no obstruction into the proximal main pulmonary artery. There was a 20 mmHg of peak systolic gradient across the branch pulmonary artery stents to the distal artery. Right and left pulmonary artery capillary wedge pressures were normal with an A-wave similar to the mildly elevated left ventricular end-diastolic pressure of 13 mmHg. Left ventricular systolic pressure was systemic. No outflow constriction to the ascending aorta. Phasic ascending and descending pressures were similar and normal. The calculated systemic and pulmonary flows were equal and normal. Vascular resistances were normal. Angiogram with injection in the main pulmonary artery showed catheter induced pulmonary insufficiency, well functioning Contegra valve with no appreciable calcification. The proximal narrowing of the distal main pulmonary artery was appreciated. Neointimal ingrowth within the proximal stents were appreciated. There is good distal growth of the pulmonary arteries. Arborization appeared normal. Levophase contrast returned to the heart appeared normal with a well-functioning left ventricle and the right aortic arch. Following the branch pulmonary artery angioplasty that was increased in the mixed venous saturation, as well as an increase in the systemic arterial saturation. Right ventricular systolic pressure felt slightly to 40 mmHg with an increase in systemic arterial pressure with a systolic pressure ratio of 54%. The main pulmonary pressures remained similar. There was 10 mmHg systolic gradient into the branch of pulmonary arteries. There is an increase in distal branch of pulmonary arteries with the mean pressure increased from 16 mmHg to 21 mmHg. Final angiogram with injection in the main pulmonary artery showed a competent Contegra valve. A brisk flow through the proximal branch stents with the improved caliber of the branch pulmonary artery lumens. There was no evidence of intimal disruption.DIAGNOSES: 1. Atrioventricular septal defect.2. Tetralogy of Fallot with the pulmonary atresia.3. Bilateral superior vena cava. The left cava draining to the coronary sinus.4. The right aortic arch.5. Discontinuous pulmonary arteries.6. Down syndrome.PRIOR SURGERIES AND INTERVENTIONS: 1. Right modified Blalock-Taussig shunt.2. Repair of tetralogy of Fallot with external conduit.3. The atrioventricular septal defect repair.4. Unifocalization of branch pulmonary arteries.5. Bilateral balloon pulmonary angioplasty and stent implantation.6. Pulmonary valve replacement with 16-mm Contegra valve.CURRENT DIAGNOSES: 1. Mild-to-moderate proximal branch pulmonary stenosis.2. Well-functioning Contegra valve and current intervention. A balloon dilation of the right pulmonary artery.3. Balloon dilation of left pulmonary artery.MANAGEMENT: The case will be discussed at Combined Cardiology and Cardiothoracic Surgery Case Conference and conservative outpatient management will be pursued. Further cardiologic care be directed by Dr. X."
"PROCEDURE PERFORMED:1. Selective ascending aortic arch angiogram.2. Selective left common carotid artery angiogram.3. Selective right common carotid artery angiogram.4. Selective left subclavian artery angiogram.5. Right iliac angio with runoff.6. Bilateral cerebral angiograms were performed as well via right and left common carotid artery injections.INDICATIONS FOR PROCEDURE: TIA, aortic stenosis, postoperative procedure. Moderate carotid artery stenosis.ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: 400 ml.SPECIMENS REMOVED: Not applicable.TECHNIQUE OF PROCEDURE: After obtaining informed consent, the patient was brought to the cardiac catheterization suite in postabsorptive and nonsedated state. The right groin was prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion. Lidocaine 2% was used for infiltration anesthesia. Using modified Seldinger technique, a 6-French sheath was placed into the right common femoral artery and vein without complication. Using injection through the side port of the sheath, a right iliac angiogram with runoff was performed. Following this, straight pigtail catheter was used to advance the aortic arch and aortic arch angiogram under digital subtraction was performed. Following this, selective engagement in left common carotid artery, right common carotid artery, and left subclavian artery angiograms were performed with a V-Tech catheter over an 0.035-inch wire.ANGIOGRAPHIC FINDINGS:1. Type 2 aortic arch.2. Left subclavian artery was patent.3 Left vertebral artery was patent.4. Left internal carotid artery had a 40% to 50% lesion with ulceration, not treated and there was no cerebral cross over.5. Right common carotid artery had a 60% to 70% lesion which was heavily calcified and was not treated with the summed left-to-right cross over flow.6. Closure was with a 6-French Angio-Seal of the artery, and the venous sheath was sutured in.PLAN: Continue aspirin, Plavix, and Coumadin to an INR of 2 with a carotid duplex followup."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:1. Carotid artery occlusive disease.2. Peripheral vascular disease.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:1. Carotid artery occlusive disease.2. Peripheral vascular disease.OPERATIONS PERFORMED:1. Bilateral carotid cerebral angiogram.2. Right femoral-popliteal angiogram.FINDINGS: The right carotid cerebral system was selectively catheterized and visualized. The right internal carotid artery was found to be very tortuous with kinking in its cervical portions, but no focal stenosis was noted. Likewise, the intracranial portion of the right internal carotid artery showed no significant disease nor did the right middle cerebral artery.The left carotid cerebral system was selectively catheterized and visualized. The cervical portion of the left internal carotid artery showed a 30 to 40% stenosis with small ulcer crater present. The intracranial portion of the left internal carotid artery showed no significant disease nor did the left middle cerebral artery.Visualization of the right lower extremity showed no significant disease.PROCEDURE: With the patient in supine position under local anesthesia plus intravenous sedation, the groin areas were prepped and draped in a sterile fashion.The common femoral artery was punctured in a routine retrograde fashion and a 5-French introducer sheath was advanced under fluoroscopic guidance. A catheter was then placed in the aortic arch and the right and left common carotid arteries were then selectively catheterized and visualized as described above.Following completion of the above, the catheter and introducer sheath were removed. Heparin had been initially given, which was reversed with protamine. Firm pressure was held over the puncture site for 20 minutes, followed by application of a sterile Coverlet dressing and sandbag compression.The patient tolerated the procedure well throughout."
"REFERRAL INDICATION AND PREPROCEDURE DIAGNOSES1. Dilated cardiomyopathy.2. Ejection fraction less than 10%.3. Ventricular tachycardia.4. Bradycardia with likely high degree of pacing.PROCEDURES PLANNED AND PERFORMED1. Implantation of biventricular automatic implantable cardioverter defibrillator.2. Fluoroscopic guidance for lead implantation for biventricular automatic implantable cardioverter defibrillator.3. Coronary sinus venogram for left ventricular lead placement.4. Defibrillation threshold testing x2.FLUOROSCOPY TIME: 18.5 minutes.MEDICATIONS AT THE TIME OF STUDY1. Vancomycin 1 g (the patient was allergic to penicillin).2. Versed 10 mg.3. Fentanyl 100 mcg.4. Benadryl 50 mg.CLINICAL HISTORY: The patient is a pleasant 57-year-old gentleman with a dilated cardiomyopathy, an ejection fraction of 10%, been referred for AICD implantation because of his low ejection fraction and a non-sustained ventricular tachycardia. He has underlying sinus bradycardia. Therefore, will likely be pacing much of the time and would benefit from a biventricular pacing device.RISKS AND BENEFITS: Risks, benefits, and alternatives to implantation of biventricular AICD and defibrillation threshold testing were discussed with the patient. Risks including but not limited to bleeding, infection, vascular injury, cardiac perforation, stroke, myocardial infarction, the need for urgent cardiovascular surgery, and death were discussed with the patient. The patient agreed both verbally and via written consent.DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: The patient was transported to the cardiac catheterization laboratory in the fasting state. The region of the left deltopectoral groove was prepped and draped in the usual sterile manner. Lidocaine 1% (20 mL) was administered to the area. After achieving appropriate anesthesia, a percutaneous access of the left axillary vein was performed under fluoroscopy with two separate sticks. Guidewires were advanced down into the left axillary vein. Following this, a 4-inch long transverse incision was made through the skin and subcutaneous tissue exposing the pectoral fascia and muscle beneath. Hemostasis was achieved with electrocautery. Lidocaine 1% (10 mL) was administered to the medial aspect of the incision and a pocket was fashioned in the medial direction. Using the more lateral of the guidewires, a 7-French side-arm sheath was advanced into the left axillary vein. The dilator was removed and another wire was advanced down into the sheath. The sheath was then backed up over the top of the two wires. One wire was pinned to the drape and using the alternate wire, a 9-French side-arm sheath was advanced down into the left axillary vein. The dilator and wire were removed. A defibrillation lead was then advanced down into the atrium. The peel-away sheath was removed. The lead was then passed across the tricuspid valve and positioned in the apical septal location. The active fix screw was deployed. Adequate pacing and sensing functions were established. A 10-volt pacing was used temporarily and there was no diaphragmatic stimulation. The suture sleeve was advanced to the entry point of the tissue and connected securely to the tissue. Using the wire that had been pinned to the drape, a 7-French side-arm sheath was advanced over this wire into the axillary vein. The wire and dilator were removed. An active pacing lead was then advanced down to the right atrium and the peel-away sheath was removed. The lead was parked until a later time. Using the separate access point, a 9-French side-arm sheath was advanced into the left axillary vein. The dilator and wire were removed. A curved outer sheath catheter as well as an inner catheter were advanced down into the area of the coronary sinus. The coronary sinus was cannulated. Inner catheter was removed and a balloon-tipped catheter was advanced into the coronary sinus. A coronary sinus venogram was then performed. It was noted that the most suitable location for lead placement was the middle cardiac vein. This was cannulated and a passive lead was advanced over a Whisper EDS wire into a distal position. Adequate pacing and sensing functions were established. A 10-volt pacing was used temporarily. There was no diaphragmatic stimulation. The outer sheath was peeled away. The 9 French sheath was then peeled away. Suture sleeve was advanced to the entry point of the tissue and connected securely to the tissue. At this point, the atrial lead was then positioned in the right atrial appendage using a preformed J-curved stylet. The lead body was turned several times and the lead was affixed to the tissue. Adequate pacing and sensing function were established. A suture sleeve was advanced to the entry point of the tissue and connected securely to the tissue. The pocket was then washed with antibiotic-impregnated saline. Pulse generator was obtained and connected securely to the leads. The leads were carefully wrapped behind the pulse generator and the entire system was placed in the pocket. The pocket was then closed with 2-0, 3-0, and 4-0 Vicryl using a running mattress stitch. Sponge and needle counts were correct at the end of the procedure and no acute complications were noted.The patient was sedated further and shock on T was performed on two separate occasions. The device was allowed to detect the charge and defibrillate, establishing the entire workings of the ICD system.DEVICE DATA1. Pulse generator, manufacturer Boston Scientific, model # N119, serial #12345.2. Right atrial lead, manufacturer Guidant, model #4470, serial #12345.3. Right ventricular lead, manufacturer Guidant, model #0185, serial #12345.4. Left ventricular lead, manufacturer Guidant, model #4549, serial #12345.MEASURED INTRAOPERATIVE DATA1. Right atrial lead impedance 705 ohms. P-waves measured at 1.7 millivolts. Pacing threshold 0.5 volt at 0.4 milliseconds.2. Right ventricular lead impedance 685 ohms. R-waves measured 10.5 millivolts. Pacing threshold 0.6 volt at 0.4 milliseconds.3. Left ventricular lead impedance 1098 ohms. R-waves measured 5.2 millivolts. Pacing threshold 1.4 volts at 0.4 milliseconds.DEFIBRILLATION THRESHOLD TESTING1. Shock on T. Charge time 2.9 seconds. Energy delivered 17 joules, successful with lead impedance of 39 ohms.2. Shock on T. Charge time 2.8 seconds. Energy delivered 17 joules, successful with a type 2 break lead impedance of 38 ohms.DEVICE SETTINGS1. A pacing DDD 60 to 120.2. VT-1 zone 165 beats per minute. VT-2 zone 185 beats per minute. VF zone 205 beats per minute.CONCLUSIONS1. Successful implantation of a biventricular automatic implantable cardiovascular defibrillator2. Defibrillation threshold of less than or equal to 17.5 joules.2. No acute complications.PLAN1. The patient will be taken back to his room for continued observation and dismissed to the discretion of the primary service.2. Chest x-ray to rule out pneumothorax and verified lead position.3. Device interrogation in the morning.4. Completion of the course of antibiotics.5. Home dismissal instructions provided in written format.6. Wound check in 7 to 10 days.7. Enrollment in device clinic."
"CHIEF COMPLAINT: Increased work of breathing.HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 2-month-old female with a 9-day history of illness. Per mom's report, the illness started 9 days ago with a dry cough. The patient was eating normal up until approximately three days ago. Mom was using a vaporizer at night, which she feels to have helped. The patient's cough gradually worsened and three days ago, the patient had a significant increasing cough. At that time, the patient also had significant increasing congestion. Two days ago the patient was taken to the primary care physician's office and the patient was given Xopenex 2 puffs every 4 to 6 hours for home regimen, but this per mom's report, did not help the patient's symptoms. On Wednesday evening, the patient's congestion and work of breathing increased and the patient was gagging after feedings. The patient was brought to Children's Hospital Emergency Room at which time the patient was evaluated. A chest x-ray was obtained and was noted to be normal. The patient's saturations were noted to be normal and the patient was discharged home. Last night, the patient was having multiple episodes of emesis after feedings with coughing and today was noted to have decreasing activity. The patient had a 101 temperature on Wednesday evening, but has had no true fevers. The patient has had a mild decrease in urine output today and secondary to the persistent increased work of breathing, coughing, and posttussive emesis, the patient was brought to Children's Hospital for reevaluation.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: The remainder of the review of system is otherwise negative, all systems being reviewed, outside of pertinent positives as stated above.ALLERGIES: NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES.MEDICATIONS: As above.IMMUNIZATIONS: None.PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: No hospitalizations. No surgeries.BIRTH HISTORY: The patient was born to a G8, P2, A6 mom via normal spontaneous vaginal delivery. Birth weight 6 pounds 12 ounces. Mom stated she had a uterine infection during her pregnancy and at the time of delivery, but the patient was only in the hospital for 24 hours with mom after delivery. The patient was full term and mom was noted to have gestational diabetes controlled with diet during her pregnancy.FAMILY HISTORY: Brother, mother, and father all have asthma. Mom was noted to have gestational diabetes.SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient lives with mother, father, and a brother. There is one bird. There are smokers in the household. There are sick contacts.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:VITAL SIGNS: Temperature is 97.7 and pulse is 181, but the patient is fussy. Respiratory rate ranged between 36 and 44. The patient is saturating 100% on one-half liter and 89% on room air.GENERAL APPEARANCE: Nontoxic child, but with increased work of breathing. No respiratory distress.HEENT: Head is normocephalic and atraumatic. Anterior fontanelle flat. Pupils are equal, round, and reactive to light bilaterally. Tympanic membranes are clear bilaterally. Nares are congested. Mucous membranes are moist without erythema.NECK: Supple. No lymphadenopathy.CHEST: Exhibits symmetric expansion and retractions.LUNGS: The patient has diffuse crackles bilaterally, but no wheezes, rales, or rhonchi.CARDIOVASCULAR: Heart has a 2/6 vibratory systolic ejection murmur, best heard over the left sternal boarder.ABDOMEN: Soft, nondistended, and nondistended. Good bowel sounds noted in all 4 quadrants.GU: Normal female. No discharge or erythema.BACK: Normal with a normal curvature.EXTREMITIES: A 2+ pulses in the bilateral upper lower extremities. No evidence of clubbing, cyanosis, or edema. Capillary refill less than 3 seconds.LABORATORY DATA: Labs in the emergency room include a CBC, which showed a white blood cell count of 20.8 with a hemoglobin of 10.7, hematocrit of 31.3 with platelet count of 715,000 with 40% neutrophils, 2 bands, and 70% monocytes. A urinalysis obtained in the emergency room was noted to be negative. CRP was noted to be 2.0. The chest x-ray, reviewed by myself in the emergency room, showed no significant change from previous x-ray, but the patient does has some bronchial wall thickening.ASSESSMENT AND PLAN: This is a 2-month-old female who presents to Children's Hospital with examination consistent with bronchiolitis. At this time, the patient will be placed on the bronchiolitis pathway providing this patient with aggressive suctioning and supplemental oxygen as needed. Currently, at this time, I feel no respiratory treatments are indicated in this patient. I hear no evidence of wheezing or reactive airway disease. We will continue to monitor and reassess this patient closely for this as there is a strong family history of reactive airway disease; however, at this time, the patient will be monitored without any medications and the remainder of the clinical course will be determined by her presentation during the course of this illness."
"DIAGNOSES:1. Bronchiolitis, respiratory syncytial virus positive; improved and stable.2. Innocent heart murmur, stable.HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted for an acute onset of congestion. She was checked for RSV, which was positive and admitted to the hospital for acute bronchiolitis. She has always been stable on room air; however, because of her age and her early diagnosis, she was admitted for observation as RSV bronchiolitis typically worsens the third and fourth day of illness. She was treated per pathway orders. However, on the second day of admission, the patient was not quite eating well and parents live far away and she did have a little bit of trouble on first night of admission. There was a heart murmur that was heard that sounded innocent, but yet there was no chest x-ray that was obtained. We did obtain a chest x-ray, which did show a slight perihilar infiltrate in the right upper lobe. However, the rest of the lungs were normal and the heart was also normal. There were no complications during her hospitalization and she continued to be stable and eating better. On day 2 of the admission, it was decided she was okay to go home. Mother was advised regarding signs and symptoms of increased respiratory distress, which includes tachypnea, increased retractions, grunting, nasal flaring etc. and she was very comfortable looking for this. During her hospitalization, albuterol MDI was given to the patient and more for mom to learn outpatient care. The patient did receive a couple of doses, but she did not have any significant respiratory distress and she was discharged in improved condition.DISCHARGE PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:VITAL SIGNS: She is afebrile. Vital signs were stable within normal limits on room air.GENERAL: She is sleeping and in no acute distress.HEENT: Her anterior fontanelle was soft and flat. She does have some upper airway congestion.CARDIOVASCULAR: Regular rate and rhythm with a 2-3/6 systolic murmur that radiates to bilateral axilla and the back.EXTREMITIES: Her femoral pulses were 2+ and her extremities were warm and well perfused with good capillary refill.LUNGS: Her lungs did show some slight coarseness, but good air movement with equal breath sounds. She does not have any wheezes at this time, but she does have a few scattered crackles at bilateral bases. She did not have any respiratory distress while she was asleep.ABDOMEN: Normal bowel sounds. Soft and nondistended.GENITOURINARY: She is Tanner I female.DISCHARGE WEIGHT: Her weight at discharge 3.346 kg, which is up 6 grams from admission.DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS: ACTIVITY: No one should smoke near The patient. She should also avoid all other exposures to smoke such as from fireplaces and barbecues. She is to avoid contact with other infants since she is sick and they are to limit travel. There should be frequent hand washings.DIET: Regular diet. Continue breast-feeding as much as possible and encourage oral intake.MEDICATIONS: She will be sent home on albuterol MDI to be used as needed for cough, wheezes or dyspnea.ADDITIONAL INSTRUCTIONS: Mom is quite comfortable with bulb suctioning the nose with saline and they know that they are to return immediately if she starts having difficulty breathing, if she stops breathing or she decides that she does not want to eat."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Fever.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Fever.PROCEDURES: Bronchoalveolar lavage.INDICATIONS FOR PROCEDURE: The patient is a 28-year-old male, status post abdominal trauma, splenic laceration, and splenectomy performed at the outside hospital, who was admitted to the Trauma Intensive Care Unit on the evening of August 4, 2008. Greater than 24 hours postoperative, the patient began to run a fever in excess of 102. Therefore, evaluation of his airway for possible bacterial infection was performed using bronchoalveolar lavage.DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: The patient was preoxygenated with 100% FIO2 for approximately 5 to 10 minutes prior to the procedure. The correct patient and procedure was identified by time out by all members of the team. The patient was prepped and draped in a sterile fashion and sterile technique was used to connect the BAL lavage catheter to Lukens trap suction. A catheter was introduced into the endotracheal tube through a T connector and five successive 20 mL aliquots of normal saline were flushed through the catheter, each time suctioning out the sample into the Lukens trap. A total volume of 30 to 40 mL was collected in the trap and sent to the lab for quantitative bacteriology. The patient tolerated the procedure well and had no episodes of desaturation, apnea, or cardiac arrhythmia. A postoperative chest x-ray was obtained."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Atelectasis.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Mucous plugging.PROCEDURE PERFORMED: Bronchoscopy.ANESTHESIA: Lidocaine topical 2%, Versed 3 mg IV. Conscious sedation.PROCEDURE: At bedside, a bronchoscope was passed down the tracheostomy tube under monitoring. The main carina was visualized. The trachea was free of any secretions. The right upper lobe, middle and lower lobes appeared to have some mucoid secretions but minimal and with some erythema. Left mainstem appeared patent. Left lower lobe had slight plugging in the left base, but much better that previous bronchoscopy findings. The area was lavaged with some saline and cleared. The patient tolerated the procedure well."
"PROCEDURE: Bronchoscopy, right upper lobe biopsies and right upper lobe bronchial washing as well as precarinal transbronchial needle aspiration.DETAILS OF THE PROCEDURE: The risks, alternatives, and benefits of the procedure were explained to the patient as well as conscious sedation and she agrees to proceed. The patient received topical lidocaine by nebulization. The flexible fiberoptic bronchoscope was introduced orally. The patient had normal teeth, normal tongue, normal jaw, and her vocal cords moved symmetrically and were without lesions. I proceeded to the right upper lobe where a mucous plug was noted in the subsegmental bronchus of the posterior segment of the right upper lobe. I proceeded under fluoroscopic guidance to guide the biopsy wire in this area and took four biopsies. Followup fluoroscopy was negative for pneumothorax. I wedged the bronchoscope in the subsegmental bronchus and achieved good hemostasis after three minutes.I then proceeded to inspect the rest of the tracheobronchial tree, which was without lesions. I performed a bronchial washing after the biopsies in the right upper lobe. I then performed two transbronchial needle aspirations with a Wang needle biopsy in the precarinal area. All of these samples were sent for histology and cytology respectively. Estimated blood loss was approximately 5 cc. Good hemostasis was achieved. The patient received a total of 12.5 mg of Demerol and 3 mg of Versed and tolerated the procedure well. Her ASA score was 2."
"INDICATIONS FOR PROCEDURE: Persistent cough productive of sputum requiring repeated courses of oral antibiotics over the last six weeks in a patient who is a recipient of a bone marrow transplant with end-stage chemotherapy and radiation-induced pulmonary fibrosis.PREMEDICATION:1. Demerol 50 mg.2. Phenergan 25 mg.3. Atropine 0.6 mg IM.4. Nebulized 4% lidocaine followed by nasal insufflation of lidocaine through the right naris and topical 4% lidocaine gel through the right naris, 4 mg of Versed was given at the start of the procedure and another 1 mg shortly after traversing the cords.PROCEDURE DETAILS: With the patient breathing oxygen by nasal cannula, being monitored by noninvasive blood pressure cuff and continuous pulse oximetry, the Olympus bronchoscope was introduced through the right naris to the level of the cords. The cords move normally with phonation and ventilation. Two times 2 mL of 1% lidocaine were instilled on the cords and the cords were traversed. Further 2 mL of 1% lidocaine was instilled in the trachea just distal to the cords, at mid trachea above the carina, and on the right, and on the left mainstem bronchus. Scope was then introduced on to the left where immediately some hyperemia of the mucosa was noted. Upper lobe and lingula were unremarkable. There appeared to be some narrowing or tenting of the left lower lobe bronchus such that after inspection of the superior segment, one almost had to pop the bronchoscope around to go down the left mainstem. This had been a change from the prior bronchoscopy of unclear significance. Distal to this, there was no hyperemia or inspissated mucus or mucoid secretions or signs of infection. The scope was wedged in the left lower lobe posterior basal segment and a BAL was done with good returns, which were faintly hemorrhagic. The scope was then removed, re-introduced up to the right upper lobe, middle lobe, superior segment, right lower, anterior lateral, and posterior basal subsegments were all evaluated and unremarkable. The scope was withdrawn. The patient's saturation remained 93%-95% throughout the procedure. Blood pressure was 103/62. Heart rate at the end of the procedure was about 100. The patient tolerated the procedure well. Samples were sent as follows. Washings for AFB, Gram-stain Nocardia, Aspergillus, and routine culture. Lavage for AFB, Gram-stain Nocardia, Aspergillus, cell count with differential, cytology, viral mycoplasma, and Chlamydia culture, GMS staining, RSV by antigen, and Legionella and Chlamydia culture."
"PROCEDURE: Fiberoptic bronchoscopy.PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Right lung atelectasis.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Extensive mucus plugging in right main stem bronchus.PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: Fiberoptic bronchoscopy was carried out at the bedside in the medical ICU after Versed 0.5 mg intravenously given in 2 aliquots. The patient was breathing supplemental nasal and mask oxygen throughout the procedure. Saturations and vital signs remained stable throughout. A flexible fiberoptic bronchoscope was passed through the right naris. The vocal cords were visualized. Secretions in the larynx were as aspirated. As before, he had a mucocele at the right anterior commissure that did not obstruct the glottic opening. The ports were anesthetized and the trachea entered. There was no cough reflex helping explain the propensity to aspiration and mucus plugging. Tracheal secretions were aspirated. The main carinae were sharp. However, there were thick, sticky, grey secretions filling the right mainstem bronchus up to the level of the carina. This was gradually lavaged clear. Saline and Mucomyst solution were used to help dislodge remaining plugs. The airways appeared slightly friable, but were patent after the airways were suctioned. O2 saturations remained in the mid-to-high 90s. The patient tolerated the procedure well. Specimens were submitted for microbiologic examination. Despite his frail status, he tolerated bronchoscopy quite well."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Tracheal stenosis and metal stent complications.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Tracheal stenosis and metal stent complications.ANESTHESIA: General endotracheal.ENDOSCOPIC FINDINGS:1. Normal true vocal cords.2. Subglottic stenosis down to 5 mm with mature cicatrix.3. Tracheal granulation tissue growing through the stents at the midway point of the stents.5. Three metallic stents in place in the proximal trachea.6. Distance from the true vocal cords to the proximal stent, 2 cm.7. Distance from the proximal stent to the distal stent, 3.5 cm.8. Distance from the distal stent to the carina, 8 cm.9. Distal airway is clear.PROCEDURES:1. Rigid bronchoscopy with dilation.2. Excision of granulation tissue tumor.3. Application of mitomycin-C.4. Endobronchial ultrasound.TECHNIQUE IN DETAIL: After informed consent was obtained from the patient and her husband, she was brought to the operating theater after sequence induction was done. She had a Dedo laryngoscope placed. Her airways were inspected thoroughly with findings as described above. She was intermittently ventilated with an endotracheal tube placed through the Dedo scope. Her granulation tissue was biopsied and then removed with a microdebrider. Her proximal trachea was dilated with a combination of balloon, Bougie, and rigid scopes. She tolerated the procedure well, was extubated, and brought to the PACU."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Airway stenosis with self-expanding metallic stent complication.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Airway stenosis with self-expanding metallic stent complication.PROCEDURES:1. Rigid bronchoscopy with removal of foreign body, prolonged procedure taking two hours to remove the stent piecemeal in a very difficult and trying situation.2. Excision of granulation tissue tumor.3. Bronchial dilation with a balloon bronchoplasty, right main bronchus.4. Argon plasma coagulation to control bleeding in the trachea.5. Placement of a tracheal and bilateral bronchial stents with a silicon wire stent.ENDOSCOPIC FINDINGS:1. Normal true vocal cords.2. Proximal trachea with high-grade occlusion blocking approximately 90% of the trachea due to granulation tissue tumor and break down of metallic stent.3. Multiple stent fractures in the mid portion of the trachea with granulation tissue.4. High-grade obstruction of the right main bronchus by stent and granulation tissue.5. Left main bronchus was covered by the distal portion of the stent and was only being ventilated through the struts of the stent.6. All in all a high-grade terrible airway obstruction with involvement of the carina, left and right main stem bronchus, mid, distal, and proximal trachea.TECHNIQUE IN DETAIL: After informed consent was obtained from the patient, he was brought into the operating field. A rapid sequence induction was done. He was intubated with a rigid scope. Jet ventilation technique was carried out using a rigid and flexible scope. A thorough airway inspection was carried out with findings as described above.Dr. D was present in the operating room and we conferred on operative strategy and agreed that the best of strategy would be to first dilate the right main bronchus, cauterize it to control bleeding and then piecemeal removed the stent from distal to proximal. This is the technique that was carried out in a painstaking fashion removing bits of the stent piecemeal with finally getting all of the visible stent out of the airway. It should be noted that Dr. Donovan and I felt that two of the metallic stents were probably in place but we cannot be sure because of the terrible anatomy and the fact that the stent pieces were coming out twisted metal in fragments. Nevertheless, all the visible stent was removed, and the airway was much better after with the dilation of balloon and the rigid scope. We took measurements and decided to place stents in the trachea, left and right main bronchus using a Dumon Y-stent. It was measured 18 mm in tracheal diameter and 14 mm in bronchial diameter. The right main stem stent was 2.25 cm in length, the left main stem stent was 3 cm in length and the tracheal portion was 9 cm in length. After it was placed, excellent placement was achieved with the proximal end of the stent 3 cm below the true vocal cords. The patient tolerated the procedure well and was brought to the recovery room extubated."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Hypoxia and increasing pulmonary secretions.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Hypoxia and increasing pulmonary secretions.OPERATION: Bronchoscopy.ANESTHESIA: Moderate bedside sedation.COMPLICATIONS: None.FINDINGS: Abundant amount of clear thick secretions throughout the main airways.INDICATIONS: The patient is a 43-year-old gentleman who has been in the ICU for several days following resection of small bowel for sequelae of SMV occlusion. This morning, the patient developed worsening hypoxia with abundant sputum production requiring frequent suctioning from his ET tube. The patient also had new-appearing atelectasis versus infiltrates in the right lower lobe of his lung on chest x-ray. Given these findings, it was felt that bronchoscopy could further define source of secretions and send more appropriate specimen for culture if need be.OPERATION: The patient was given additional fentanyl, Versed as well as paralytics for the procedure. Small bronchoscope was inserted through the ET tube and to the trachea to the level of carina. There was noted to be thick clear secretions adherent to the trachea walls as well as into the right mainstem bronchus. Extensive secretions extended down into the secondary airways. This was lavaged with saline and suctioned dry. There is no overt specific occlusion of airways, nor was there any purulent-appearing sputum. The bronchoscope was then advanced into the left mainstem bronchus, and there was noted to be a small amount of similar-appearing secretions which was likewise suctioned and cleaned. The bronchoscope was removed, and the patient was increased to PEEP of 10 on the ventilator. Please note that prior to starting bronchoscopy, he was pre oxygenated with 100% O2. The patient tolerated the procedure well and lavage specimen was sent for gram stain as well as routine culture."
"PROCEDURE: Diagnostic fiberoptic bronchoscopy.ANESTHESIA: Plain lidocaine 2% was given intrabronchially for local anesthesia.PREOPERATIVE MEDICATIONS: 1. Lortab (10 mg) plus Phenergan (25 mg), p.o. 1 hour before the procedure.2. Versed a total of 5 mg given IV push during the procedure.INDICATIONS: Right upper lobe lung mass, posterior segment.Consent obtained from the patient's daughter.PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: After appropriate sedation was achieved, the bronchoscope was introduced via the right nares and advanced to the upper larynx. Plain lidocaine 2% was used to anesthetize the laryngeal structures. After adequate anesthesia was achieved, close inspection of the laryngeal structures could be performed. Both vocal cords moved appropriately. Under direct visualization, the bronchoscope was advanced past the vocal cords and into the distal trachea. Additional 2% plain lidocaine was used in the trachea and the main stem bronchi for anesthesia. After adequate anesthesia was achieved, close inspection of the airways could be undertaken. The left tracheobronchial tree was inspected closely to the level of the subsegmental bronchi. All bronchi are patent with no endobronchial lesions and no mucosal lesions noted. The right tracheobronchial tree was also patent and intact with the mucosa normal. The bronchoscope was then introduced to the right upper lobe specifically to the posterior segment and washings/brushings and transbronchial lung biopsies were taken from that area. He had quite a bit of coughing during the diagnostic procedures despite lidocaine administration. A total of 5 mg of Versed was used to effect sedation. At one point, the bronchoscope had to be completely withdrawn so that the sample could be appropriately retrieved. Upon reintroduction, there was quite a bit of bleeding in his right nares. The right naris was packed for control of the bleeding. The procedure was completed and all samples were submitted for appropriate studies. A post procedure chest x-ray has been obtained and is still pending. He tolerated the procedure very well other then for the brisk epistaxis from the right nares. Packing to the right nares has been completed."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Persistent pneumonia, right upper lobe of the lung, possible mass.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Persistent pneumonia, right upper lobe of the lung, possible mass.PROCEDURE: Bronchoscopy with brush biopsies.DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: After obtaining an informed consent, the patient was taken to the operating room where he underwent a general endotracheal anesthesia. A time-out process had been followed and then the flexible bronchoscope was inserted through the endotracheal tube after 2 cc of 4% lidocaine had been infused into the endotracheal tube. First the trachea and the carina had normal appearance. The scope was passed into the left side and the bronchial system was found to be normal. There were scars and mucoid secretions. Then the scope was passed into the right side where brown secretions were obtained and collected in a trap to be sent for culture and sensitivity of aerobic and anaerobic fungi and TB. First, the basal lobes were explored and found to be normal. Then, the right upper lobe was selectively cannulated and no abnormalities were found except some secretions were aspirated. Then, the bronchi going to the three segments were visualized and no abnormalities or mass were found. Brush biopsy was obtained from one of the segments and sent to Pathology.The procedure had to be interrupted several times because of the patient's desaturation, but after a few minutes of Ambu bagging, he recovered satisfactorily.At the end, the patient tolerated the procedure well and was sent to the recovery room in satisfactory condition."
"HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: A 67-year-old gentleman who presented to the emergency room with chest pain, cough, hemoptysis, shortness of breath, and recent 30-pound weight loss. He had a CT scan done of the chest there which demonstrated bilateral hilar adenopathy with extension to the subcarinal space as well as a large 6-cm right hilar mass, consistent with a primary lung carcinoma. There was also a question of liver metastases at that time.OPERATION PERFORMED: Fiberoptic bronchoscopy with endobronchial biopsies.The bronchoscope was passed into the airway and it was noted that there was a large, friable tumor blocking the bronchus intermedius on the right. The tumor extended into the carina, involving the lingula and the left upper lobe, appearing malignant. Approximately 15 biopsies were taken of the tumor.Attention was then directed at the left upper lobe and lingula. Epinephrine had already been instilled and multiple biopsies were taken of the lingula and the left upper lobe and placed in a separate container for histologic review. Approximately eight biopsies were taken of the left upper lobe."
"FLEXIBLE BRONCHOSCOPYThe flexible bronchoscopy is performed under conscious sedation in the Pediatric Intensive Care Unit. I explained to the parents that the possible risks include: irritation of the nasal mucosa, which can be associated with some bleeding; risk of contamination of the lower airways by passage of the scope in the nasopharynx; respiratory depression from sedation; and a very small risk of pneumothorax. A bronchoalveolar lavage may be obtained by injecting normal saline in one of the bronchi and suctioning the fluid back. The sample will then be sent for testing. The flexible bronchoscopy is mainly diagnostic, any therapeutic intervention, if deemed necessary, will be planned and will require a separate procedure.The parents seem to understand, had the opportunity to ask questions and were satisfied with the information. A booklet containing the description of the procedure and other information was provided."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Refractory pneumonitis.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Refractory pneumonitis.PROCEDURE PERFORMED: Bronchoscopy with bronchoalveolar lavage.ANESTHESIA: 5 mg of Versed.INDICATIONS: A 69-year-old man status post trauma, slightly prolonged respiratory failure status post tracheostomy, requires another bronchoscopy for further evaluation of refractory pneumonitis.PROCEDURE: The patient was sedated with 5 mg of Versed that was placed on the endotracheal tube. Bronchoscope was advanced. Both right and left mainstem bronchioles and secondary and tertiary bronchioles were cannulated sequentially, lavaged out. Relatively few tenacious secretions were noted. These were lavaged out. Specimen collected for culture. No obvious other abnormalities were noted. The patient tolerated the procedure well without complication."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Foreign body in airway.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Plastic piece foreign body in the right main stem bronchus.PROCEDURE: Rigid bronchoscopy with foreign body removal.INDICATIONS FOR PROCEDURE: This patient is 7-month-old baby boy who presented to emergency room today with increasing stridor and shortness of breath according to mom. The patient had a chest x-ray and based on that there is concern by the Radiology it could be a foreign body in the right main stem. The patient has been taken to the operating room for rigid bronchoscopy and foreign body removal.DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: The patient was taken to the operating room, placed supine, put under general mask anesthesia. Using a 3.5 rigid bronchoscope we visualized between the cords into the trachea. There were some secretions but that looked okay. Got down at the level of the carina to see a foreign body flapping in the right main stem. I then used graspers to grasp to try to pull into the scope itself. I could not do that, I thus had to pull the scope out along with the foreign body that was held on to with a grasper. It appeared to be consisting of some type of plastic piece that had broke off some different object. I took the scope and put it back down into the airway again. Again, there was secretion in the trachea that we suctioned out. We looked down into the right bronchus intermedius. There was no other pathology noted, just some irritation in the right main stem area. I looked down the left main stem as well and that looked okay as well. I then withdrew the scope. Trachea looked fine as well as the cords. I put the patient back on mask oxygen to wake the patient up. The patient tolerated the procedure well."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Carcinoma of the left upper lobe.PROCEDURES PERFORMED:1. Bronchoscopy with aspiration.2. Left upper lobectomy.PROCEDURE DETAILS: With patient in supine position under general anesthesia with endotracheal tube in place, the flexible bronchoscope was then placed down through the endotracheal tube to examine the carina. The carina was in the midline and sharp. Moving directly to the right side, the right upper and middle lower lobes were examined and found to be free of obstructions. Aspiration was carried out for backlog ________ examination. We then moved to left side, left upper lobe. There was a tumor mass located in the lingula of the left lobe and left lower lobe found free of obstruction. No anatomic lesions were demonstrated. The patient was prepared for left thoracotomy rotated to his right side with a double lumen endotracheal tube in place with an NG tube and a Foley catheter. After proper position, utilizing Betadine solution, they were draped. A posterolateral left thoracotomy incision was performed. Hemostasis was secured with electrocoagulation. The chest wall muscle was then divided over the sixth rib. The periosteum of the sixth rib was then removed superiorly and the pleural cavity was entered carefully. At this time, the mass was felt in the left upper lobe, which measures greater than 3 cm by palpation. We examined the superior mediastinum. No lymph nodes were demonstrated as well as in the anterior mediastinum. Direction was then moved to the fascia where by utilizing sharp and blunt dissection, lingual artery was separated into the left upper lobe. Casual dissection was carried out with superior segmental arteries and left lower lobe was examined.Dissection was carried out around the pulmonary artery thus exposing the posterior artery to the left upper lobe. Direction was carried out to the superior pulmonary vein and utilizing sharp and blunt dissection the entire superior pulmonary vein was separated from the surrounding tissue. From the top side, the bronchus was then separated away from the pulmonary artery anteriorly, thus exposing the apical posterior artery, which was short. Tumor mass was close to the artery at this time. We then directed ourselves once again to the lingual artery which was doubly ligated and cut free. The posterior artery of the superior branch was doubly ligated and cut free also. At this time, the bronchus of the left upper lobe was encountered in the fissure on palpation to separate the upper lobe bronchus from lower lobe bronchus and the area was accomplished. We then moved anteriorly to doubly ligate the pulmonary vein using #00 silk sutures for ligation and a transection #00 silk suture was used to fixate the vein. Using sharp and blunt dissection, the bronchus through the left upper lobe was freed proximal. Using the TA 50, the bronchus was then cut free allowing the lung to fall superiorly at which time direction was carried out to the pulmonary artery where the tumor was in close proximity at this time. A Potts clamp arterial was then placed over the artery and shaving off the tumor and the apical posterior artery was then accomplished. The anterior artery was seen in the clamp also and was separated and ligated and separated. At this time, the entire tumor in the left upper lobe was then removed. Direction was carried to the suture where #000 silk was used as a running suture over the pulmonary artery and was here doubly run and tied in place. The clamp was then removed. No bleeding was seen at this time. Lymph nodes were then removed from the sump of the separation between the upper lobe and the lower lobe and sent for separate pathology. We then carried out incision in the inferior pulmonary ligament up to the pulmonary vein allowing the lung to reexpand to its normal position. At this time, two chest tubes #28 and #32 were placed anteriorly and posteriorly to fixate the skin using raw silk suture. The chest cavity was then closed. After reexamination, no bleeding was seen with three pericostal sutures of #1 chromic double strength. A #2-0 Polydek was then used to close the chest wall muscle the anterior as well as latissimus dorsi #000 chromic subcutaneous tissue skin clips to the skin. The chest tubes were attached to the Pleur-Evac drainage and placed on suction at this time. The patient was extubated in the room without difficulty and sent to Recovery in satisfactory."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES1. Bilateral bronchopneumonia.2. Empyema of the chest, left.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES1. Bilateral bronchopneumonia.2. Empyema of the chest, left.PROCEDURES1. Diagnostic bronchoscopy.2. Limited left thoracotomy with partial pulmonary decortication and insertion of chest tubes x2.DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: After obtaining an informed consent, the patient was taken to the operating room where a time-out process was followed. Initially, the patient was intubated with a #6 French tube because of the presence of previous laryngectomy. Because of this, I proceeded to use a pediatric bronchoscope, which provided limited visualization, but I was able to see the trachea and the carina and both left and right bronchial systems without significant pathology, although there was some mucus secretion that was aspirated.Then, with the patient properly anesthetized and looking very stable, we decided to insert a larger endotracheal tube that allowed for the insertion of the regular adult bronchoscope. Therefore, we were able to obtain a better visualization and see the trachea and the carina that were normal and also the left and right bronchial systems. Some brownish secretions were obtained, particularly from the right side and were sent for culture and sensitivity, both aerobic and anaerobic fungi and acid fast.Then, the patient was turned with left side up and prepped for a left thoracotomy. He was properly draped. I had recently re-inspected the CT of the chest and decided to make a limited thoracotomy of about 6 cm or so in the midaxillary line about the sixth intercostal space. Immediately, it was evident that there was a large amount of pus in the left chest. We proceeded to insert the suction catheters and we rapidly obtained about 1400 mL of frank pus. Then, we proceeded to open the intercostal space a bit more with a Richardson retractor and it was immediately obvious that there was an abundant amount of solid exudate throughout the lung. We spent several minutes trying to clean up this area. Initially, I had planned only to drain the empyema because the patient was in a very poor condition, but at this particular moment, he was more stable and well oxygenated, and the situation was such that we were able to perform a partial pulmonary decortication where we broke up a number of loculations that were present and we were able to separate the lung from the diaphragm and also the pulmonary fissure. On the upper part of the chest, we had limited access, but overall we obtained a large amount of solid exudate and we were able to break out loculations. We followed by irrigation with 2000 cc of warm normal saline and then insertion of two #32 chest tubes, which are the largest one available in this institution; one we put over the diaphragm and the other one going up and down towards the apex.The limited thoracotomy was closed with heavy intercostal sutures of Vicryl, then interrupted sutures of #0 Vicryl to the muscle layers, and I loosely approximately the skin with a few sutures of nylon because I am suspicious that the incision may become infected because he has been exposed to intrapleural pus.The chest tubes were secured with sutures and then connected to Pleur-evac. Then, the patient was transported.Estimated blood loss was minimal and the patient tolerated the procedure well. He was extubated in the operating room and he was transferred to the ICU to be admitted. A chest x-ray was ordered stat."
"OPERATIVE PROCEDURE: Bronchoscopy brushings, washings and biopsies.HISTORY: This is a 41-year-old woman admitted to Medical Center with a bilateral pulmonary infiltrate, immunocompromise.INDICATIONS FOR THE PROCEDURE: Bilateral infiltrates, immunocompromised host, and pneumonia.Prior to procedure, the patient was intubated with 8-French ET tube orally by Anesthesia due to her profound hypoxemia and respiratory distress.DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: Under MAC and fluoroscopy, fiberoptic bronchoscope was passed through the ET tube.ET tube was visualized approximately 2 cm above the carina. Fiberoptic bronchoscope subsequently was passed through the right lower lobe area and transbronchial biopsies under fluoroscopy were done from the right lower lobe x3 as well as the brushings were obtained and the washings. The patient tolerated the procedure well. Postprocedure, the patient is to be placed on a ventilator as well as postprocedure chest x-ray pending. Specimens are sent for immunocompromise panel including PCP stains.POSTPROCEDURE DIAGNOSIS: Pneumonia, infiltrates."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:1. Lumbar osteomyelitis.2. Need for durable central intravenous access.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:1. Lumbar osteomyelitis.2. Need for durable central intravenous access.ANESTHESIA: General.PROCEDURE: Placement of left subclavian 4-French Broviac catheter.INDICATIONS: The patient is a toddler admitted with a limp and back pain, who was eventually found on bone scan and septic workup to have probable osteomyelitis of the lumbar spine at disk areas. The patient needs prolonged IV antibiotic therapy, but attempt at a PICC line failed. She has exhausted most of her easy peripheral IV access routes and referral was made to the Pediatric Surgery Service for Broviac placement. I met with the patient's mom. With the help of a Spanish interpreter, I explained the technique for Broviac placement. We discussed the surgical risks and alternatives, most of which have been exhausted. All their questions have been answered, and the patient is fit for operation today.DESCRIPTION OF OPERATION: The patient came to the operating room and had an uneventful induction of general anesthesia. We conducted a surgical time-out to reiterate all of the patient's important identifying information and to confirm that we were here to place the Broviac catheter. Preparation and draping of her skin was performed with chlorhexidine based prep solution and then an infraclavicular approach to left subclavian vein was performed. A flexible guidewire was inserted into the central location and then a 4-French Broviac catheter was tunneled through the subcutaneous tissues and exiting on the right anterolateral chest wall well below and lateral to the breast and pectoralis major margins. The catheter was brought to the subclavian insertion site and trimmed so that the tip would lie at the junction of the superior vena cava and right atrium based on fluoroscopic guidelines. The peel-away sheath was passed over the guidewire and then the 4-French catheter was deployed through the peel-away sheath. There was easy blood return and fluoroscopic imaging showed initially the catheter had transited across the mediastinum up the opposite subclavian vein, then it was withdrawn and easily replaced in the superior vena cava. The catheter insertion site was closed with one buried 5-0 Monocryl stitch and the same 5-0 Monocryl was used to tether the catheter at the exit site until fibrous ingrowth of the attached cuff has occurred. Heparinized saline solution was used to flush the line. A sterile occlusive dressing was applied, and the line was prepared for immediate use. The patient was transported to the recovery room in good condition. There were no intraoperative complications, and her blood loss was between 5 and 10 mL during the line placement portion of the procedure."
"TITLE OF PROCEDURE: Coronary artery bypass grafting times three utilizing the left internal mammary artery, left anterior descending and reversed autogenous saphenous vein graft to the posterior descending branch of the right coronary artery and obtuse marginal coronary artery, total cardiopulmonary bypass, cold blood potassium cardioplegia, antegrade and retrograde, for myocardial protection.DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: The patient was brought to the operating room and placed in the supine position. Adequate general endotracheal anesthesia was induced. Appropriate monitoring devices were placed. The chest, abdomen and legs were prepped and draped in the sterile fashion. The right greater saphenous vein was harvested and prepared by ligating all branches with 4-0 Surgilon and flushed with heparinized blood. Hemostasis was achieved in the legs and closed with running 2-0 Dexon in the subcutaneous tissue and running 3-0 Dexon subcuticular in the skin. Median sternotomy incision was made and the left mammary artery was dissected free from its takeoff of the subclavian to its bifurcation at the diaphragm and surrounded with papaverine-soaked gauze. The pericardium was opened. The pericardial cradle was created. The patient was fully heparinized and cannulated with a single aortic and single venous cannula and bypass was instituted. A retrograde cardioplegic cannula was placed with a pursestring suture of 4-0 Prolene suture in the right atrial wall into the coronary sinus and tied to a Rumel tourniquet. An antegrade cardioplegic needle sump combination was placed in the ascending aorta and tied in place with 4-0 Prolene. The ascending aorta was crossclamped. Cold blood potassium cardioplegia was given to the ascending aorta followed by sumping through the ascending aorta followed by cold retrograde potassium cardioplegia. The obtuse marginal coronary artery was identified and opened and end-to-side anastomosis was performed to the reversed autogenous saphenous vein with running 7-0 Prolene suture and the vein was cut to length. Cold antegrade and retrograde cardioplegia were given and the posterior descending branch of the right coronary artery was identified and opened. End-to-side anastomosis was performed with a running 7-0 Prolene suture and the vein was cut to length. Cold antegrade and retrograde potassium cardioplegia were given. The mammary artery was clipped distally, divided and spatulated for anastomosis. The anterior descending was identified and opened. End-to-side anastomosis was performed through the left internal mammary artery with running 8-0 Prolene suture. The mammary pedicle was sutured to the heart with interrupted 5-0 Prolene suture. A warm antegrade and retrograde cardioplegia were given. The aortic crossclamp was removed. The partial occlusion clamp was placed. Aortotomies were made. The veins were cut to fit these and sutured in place with running 5-0 Prolene suture. A partial occlusion clamp was removed. All anastomoses were inspected and noted to be patent and dry. Ventricular and atrial pacing wires were placed. The patient was fully warmed and weaned from cardiopulmonary bypass. The patient was decannulated in the routine fashion and Protamine was given. Good hemostasis was noted. A single mediastinal and left pleural chest tube were placed. The sternum was closed with interrupted wire, linea alba with running 0 Prolene, the sternal fascia was closed with running 0 Prolene, the subcutaneous tissue with running 2-0 Dexon and the skin with running 3-0 Dexon subcuticular stitch. The patient tolerated the procedure well."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Coronary occlusive disease.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Coronary occlusive disease.OPERATION PROCEDURE: Coronary bypass graft x2 utilizing left internal mammary artery, the left anterior descending, reverse autogenous reverse autogenous saphenous vein graft to the obtuse marginal. Total cardiopulmonary bypass, cold-blood potassium cardioplegia, antegrade for myocardial protection.INDICATION FOR THE PROCEDURE: The patient was a 71-year-old female transferred from an outside facility with the left main, proximal left anterior descending, and proximal circumflex severe coronary occlusive disease, ejection fraction about 40%.FINDINGS: The LAD was 2-mm vessel and good, mammary was good, and obtuse marginal was 2-mm vessel and good, and the main was good.DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: The patient was brought to the operating room and placed in the supine position. Adequate general endotracheal anesthesia was induced. Appropriate monitoring devices were placed. The chest, abdomen and legs were prepped and draped in the sterile fashion. The right greater saphenous vein was harvested and prepared by 2 interrupted skin incisions and by ligating all branches with 4-0 Surgilon and flushed with heparinized blood. Hemostasis was achieved in the legs and closed with running 2-0 Dexon in the subcutaneous tissue and running 3-0 Dexon subcuticular in the skin.Median sternotomy incision was made and the left mammary artery was dissected free from its takeoff of the subclavian to its bifurcation at the diaphragm and surrounded with papaverine-soaked gauze. The pericardium was opened. The pericardial cradle was created. The patient was fully heparinized and cannulated with a single aortic and single venous cannula and bypass was instituted. A retrograde cardioplegic cannula was placed with a pursestring suture of 4-0 Prolene suture in the right atrial wall into the coronary sinus and tied to a Rumel tourniquet. An antegrade cardioplegic needle sump combination was placed in the ascending aorta and tied in place with 4-0 Prolene. Cardiopulmonary bypass was instituted and the ascending aorta was crossclamped. Antegrade cardioplegia was given at a total of 5 mL per kg through the aortic route. This was followed by something in the aortic route and retrograde cardioplegia through the coronary sinus at a total of 5 mL per kg. The obtuse marginal coronary was identified and opened.End-to-side anastomosis was performed with a running 7-0 Prolene suture and the vein was cut to length. Cold antegrade and retrograde potassium cardioplegia were given. The mammary artery was clipped distally, divided and spatulated for anastomosis. The anterior descending was identified and opened. End-to-side anastomosis was performed with running 8-0 Prolene suture and the warm blood potassium cardioplegia was given antegrade and retrograde and the aortic cross-clamp was removed. The partial occlusion clamp was placed. Aortotomies were made. The veins were cut to fit these and sutured in place with running 5-0 Prolene suture. A partial occlusion clamp was removed. All anastomoses were inspected and noted to be patent and dry. Ventilation was commenced. The patient was fully warm and the patient was then wean from cardiopulmonary bypass. The patient was decannulated in routine fashion. Protamine was given. Good hemostasis was noted. A single mediastinal chest tube and bilateral pleural Blake drains were placed. The sternum was closed with figure-of-eight stainless steel wire plus two 5-mm Mersiline tapes.The linea alba was closed with figure-of-eight of #1 Vicryl, the sternal fascia closed with running #1 Vicryl, the subcu closed with running 2-0 Dexon, skin with running 4-0 Dexon subcuticular stitch. The patient tolerated the procedure well."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Angina and coronary artery disease.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Angina and coronary artery disease.NAME OF OPERATION: Coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) x2, left internal mammary artery to the left anterior descending and reverse saphenous vein graft to the circumflex, St. Jude proximal anastomosis used for vein graft. Off-pump Medtronic technique for left internal mammary artery, and a BIVAD technique for the circumflex.ANESTHESIA: General.PROCEDURE DETAILS: The patient was brought to the operating room and placed in the supine position upon the table. After adequate general anesthesia, the patient was prepped with Betadine soap and solution in the usual sterile manner. Elbows were protected to avoid ulnar neuropathy, chest wall expansion avoided to avoid ulnar neuropathy, phrenic nerve protectors used to protect the phrenic nerve and removed at the end of the case.A midline sternal skin incision was made and carried down through the sternum which was divided with the saw. Pericardial and thymus fat pad was divided. The left internal mammary artery was harvested and spatulated for anastomosis. Heparin was given.Vein resected from the thigh, side branches secured using 4-0 silk and Hemoclips. The thigh was closed multilayer Vicryl and Dexon technique. A Pulsavac wash was done, drain was placed.The left internal mammary artery is sewn to the left anterior descending using 7-0 running Prolene technique with the Medtronic off-pump retractors. After this was done, the patient was fully heparinized, cannulated with a 6.5 atrial cannula and a 2-stage venous catheter and begun on cardiopulmonary bypass and maintained normothermia. Medtronic retractors used to expose the circumflex. Prior to going on pump, we stapled the vein graft in place to the aorta.Then, on pump, we did the distal anastomosis with a 7-0 running Prolene technique. The right side graft was brought to the posterior descending artery using running 7-0 Prolene technique. Deairing procedure was carried out. The bulldogs were removed. The patient maintained good normal sinus rhythm with good mean perfusion. The patient was weaned from cardiopulmonary bypass. The arterial and venous lines were removed and doubly secured. Protamine was delivered. Meticulous hemostasis was present. Platelets were given for coagulopathy. Chest tube was placed and meticulous hemostasis was present. The anatomy and the flow in the grafts was excellent. Closure was begun.The sternum was closed with wire, followed by linea alba and pectus fascia closure with running 0 Vicryl sutures in double-layer technique. The skin was closed with subcuticular 4-0 Dexon suture technique. The patient tolerated the procedure well and was transferred to the intensive care unit in stable condition.We minimized the pump time to 16 minutes for just the distal anastomosis of the circumflex in order to lessen the insult to the kidneys as the patient already has kidney failure with a creatinine of 3.0."
"OPERATIVE PROCEDURE:1. Redo coronary bypass grafting x3, right and left internal mammary, left anterior descending, reverse autogenous saphenous vein graft to the obtuse marginal and posterior descending branch of the right coronary artery. Total cardiopulmonary bypass, cold-blood potassium cardioplegia, antegrade for myocardial protection.2. Placement of a right femoral intraaortic balloon pump.DESCRIPTION: The patient was brought to the operating room and placed in the supine position. After adequate endotracheal anesthesia was induced, appropriate monitoring lines were placed. Chest, abdomen an legs were prepped and draped in sterile fashion. The femoral artery on the right was punctured and a guidewire was placed. The track was dilated and intraaortic balloon pump was placed in the appropriate position, sewn in place and ballooning started.The left greater saphenous vein was harvested from the groin to the knee and prepared by ligating all branches with 4-0 silk and flushed with vein solution. The leg was closed with running 3-0 Dexon subcu and running 4-0 Dexon on the skin.The old mediastinal incision was opened. The wires were cut and removed. The sternum was divided in the midline. Retrosternal attachments were taken down. The left internal mammary was dissected free from its takeoff at the left subclavian bifurcation at the diaphragm and surrounded with papaverine-soaked gauze. The heart was dissected free of its adhesions. The patient was fully heparinized and cannulated with a single aorta and single venous cannula. Retrograde cardioplegia cannula was attempted to be placed, but could not be fitted into the coronary sinus safely, therefore, it was banded and oversewn with 5-0 Prolene. An antegrade cardioplegia needle sump was placed and secured to the ascending aorta. Cardiopulmonary bypass ensued. The ascending aorta was cross clamped. Cold-blood potassium cardioplegia was given antegrade, a total of 10 cc/kg. It was followed by sumping the ascending aorta. The obtuse marginal was identified and opened and an end-to-side anastomosis was performed with a running 7-0 Prolene suture. The vein was cut to length. Antegrade cardioplegia was given, a total of 200 cc. The posterior descending branch of the right coronary artery was identified, opened and end-to-side anastomosis then performed with a running 7-0 Prolene suture. The vein was cut to length. Antegrade cardioplegia was given. The mammary was clipped distally, divided and spatulated for anastomosis. The anterior descending was identified, opened and end-to-side anastomosis then performed with running 8-0 Prolene suture and warm blood potassium cardioplegia was given. The cross clamp was removed. A partial-occlusion clamp was placed. Aortotomies were made. The vein was cut to fit these and sutured in place with running 5-0 Prolene suture. The partial-occlusion clamp was removed. All anastomoses were inspected and noted to be patent and dry. Atrial and ventricular pacing wires were placed. The patient was fully warmed and ventilation was commenced. The patient was weaned from cardiopulmonary bypass, ventricular balloon pumping and inotropic support and weaned from cardiopulmonary bypass. The patient was decannulated in routine fashion. Protamine was given. Good hemostasis was noted. A single mediastinal chest tube and bilateral pleural Blake drains were placed. The sternum was closed with figure-of-eight stainless steel wire. The linea alba was closed with figure-of-eight of #1 Vicryl, the sternal fascia closed with running #1 Vicryl, the subcu closed with running 2-0 Dexon, skin with running 4-0 Dexon subcuticular stitch. The patient tolerated the procedure well."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES: Progressive exertional angina, three-vessel coronary artery disease, left main disease, preserved left ventricular function.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES: Progressive exertional angina, three-vessel coronary artery disease, left main disease, preserved left ventricular function.OPERATIVE PROCEDURE: Coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) x4.GRAFTS PERFORMED: LIMA to LAD, left radial artery from the aorta to the PDA, left saphenous vein graft from the aorta sequential to the diagonal to the obtuse marginal.INDICATIONS FOR PROCEDURE: The patient is a 74-year-old gentleman, who presented with six-month history of progressively worsening exertional angina. He had a positive stress test and cardiac cath showed severe triple-vessel coronary artery disease including left main disease with preserved LV function. He was advised surgical revascularization of his coronaries.FINDINGS DURING THE PROCEDURE: The aorta was free of any significant plaque in the ascending portion at the sites of cannulation and cross clamp. Left internal mammary artery and saphenous vein grafts were good quality conduits. Radial artery graft was a smaller sized conduit, otherwise good quality. All distal targets showed heavy plaque involvement with calcification present. The smallest target was the PDA, which was about 1.5 mm in size. All the other targets were about 2 mm in size or greater. The patient came off cardiopulmonary bypass without any problems. He was transferred on Neo-Synephrine, nitroglycerin, Precedex drips. Cross clamp time was 102 minutes, bypass time was 120 minutes.DETAILS OF THE PROCEDURE: The patient was brought into the operating room and laid supine on the table. After he had been interfaced with the appropriate monitors, general endotracheal anesthesia was induced and invasive monitoring lines including right IJ triple-lumen catheter and Cordis catheter, right radial A-line, Foley catheter, TEE probes were placed and interfaced appropriately. The patient was then prepped and draped from chin to bilateral ankles including the left forearm in the usual sterile fashion. Preoperative checkup of the left forearm has revealed good collateral filling from the ulnar with the radial occluded thus indicating good common arch and thus left radial artery was suitable for harvest.After prepping and draping the patient from the chin to bilateral ankles including left forearm in the usual sterile fashion, proper time-out was conducted and site identification was performed, and subsequently incision was made overlying the sternum and median sternotomy was performed. Left internal mammary artery was taken down. Simultaneously, left forearm radial artery was harvested using endoscopic harvesting techniques. Simultaneously, endoscopic left leg saphenous vein was harvested using endoscopic minimally invasive techniques. Subsequent to harvest, the incisions were closed in layers during the course of the procedure.Heparin was given. Pericardium was opened and suspended. During the takedown of the left internal mammary artery, it was noted that the left pleural space was globally softened and left lung was adherent to the chest wall and mediastinum globally. Only a limited dissection was performed to free up the lung from the mediastinal structures to accommodate the left internal mammary artery.Pericardium was opened and suspended. Pursestring sutures were placed. Aortic and venous as well as antegrade and retrograde cardioplegia cannulation was performed and the patient was placed on cardiopulmonary bypass. With satisfactory flow, the aorta was cross clamped and the heart was arrested using a combination of antegrade and retrograde cold blood cardioplegia. An initial dose of about 1500 mL was given and this was followed by intermittent doses given both antegrade and retrograde throughout the procedure to maintain a good arrest and to protect the heart.PDA was exposed first. The right coronary artery was calcified along its course all the way to its terminal bifurcation. Even in the PDA, calcification was noted in a spotty fashion. Arteriotomy on the PDA was performed in a soft area and 1.5 probe was noted to be accommodated in both directions. End radial to side PDA anastomosis was constructed using running 7-0 Prolene. Next, the posterolateral obtuse marginal was exposed. Arteriotomy was performed. An end saphenous vein to side obtuse marginal anastomosis was constructed using running 7-0 Prolene. This graft was then apposed to the diagonal and corresponding arteriotomy and venotomies were performed and a diamond shaped side-to-side anastomosis was constructed using running 7-0 Prolene. Next, a slit was made in the left side of the pericardium and LIMA was accommodated in the slit on its way to the LAD. LAD was exposed. Arteriotomy was performed. An end LIMA to side LAD anastomosis was constructed using running 7-0 Prolene. LIMA was tacked down to the epicardium securely utilizing its fascial pedicle.Two stab incisions were made in the ascending aorta and enlarged using 4-mm punch. Two proximal anastomosis were constructed between the proximal end of the saphenous vein graft and the side of the aorta, and the proximal end of the radial artery graft and the side of the aorta separately using running 6-0 Prolene. The patient was given terminal dose of warm retrograde followed by antegrade cardioplegia during which de-airing maneuvers were performed. Following this, the aortic cross clamp was removed and the heart was noted to resume spontaneous coordinated contractile activity. Temporary V-pacing wires were placed. Blake drains were placed in the left chest, the right chest, as well as in the mediastinum. Left chest Blake drain was placed just in the medial section where dissection had been performed. After an adequate period of rewarming during which time, temporary V-pacing wires were also placed, the patient was successfully weaned off cardiopulmonary bypass without any problems. With satisfactory hemodynamics, good LV function on TEE and baseline EKG, heparin was reversed using protamine. Decannulation was performed after volume resuscitation. Hemostasis was assured. Mediastinal and pericardial fat and pericardium were loosely reapproximated in the midline and chest was closed in layers using interrupted stainless steel wires to reappose the two sternal halves, heavy Vicryl for musculofascial closure, and Monocryl for subcuticular skin closure. Dressings were applied. The patient was transferred to the ICU in stable condition. He tolerated the procedure well. All counts were correct at the termination of the procedure. Cross clamp time was 102 minutes. Bypass time was 120 minutes. The patient was transferred on Neo-Synephrine, nitroglycerin, and Precedex drips."
"REASON FOR VISIT: Six-month follow-up visit for CAD.He is a 67-year-old man who suffers from chronic anxiety and coronary artery disease and DJD.He has been having a lot of pain in his back and pain in his left knee. He is also having trouble getting his nerves under control. He is having stomach pains and occasional nausea. His teeth are bad and need to be pulled.He has been having some chest pains, but overall he does not sound too concerning. He does note some more shortness of breath than usual. He has had no palpitations or lightheadedness. No problems with edema.MEDICATIONS: Lipitor 40 mg q.d., metoprolol 25 mg b.i.d., Plavix 75 mg q.d-discontinued, enalapril 10 mg b.i.d., aspirin 325 mg-reduced to 81 mg, Lorcet 10/650-given a 60 pill prescription, and Xanax 0.5 mg b.i.d-given a 60 pill prescription.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Otherwise unremarkable.PEX: BP: 140/78. HR: 65. WT: 260 pounds (which is up one pound). There is no JVD. No carotid bruit. Cardiac: Regular rate and rhythm and distant heart sounds with a 1/6 murmur at the upper sternal border. Lungs: Clear. Abdomen: Mildly tender throughout the epigastrium.Extremities: No edema.EKG: Sinus rhythm, left axis deviation, otherwise unremarkable.Echocardiogram (for dyspnea and CAD): Normal systolic and diastolic function. Moderate LVH. Possible gallstones seen.IMPRESSION:1. CAD-Status post anterior wall MI 07/07 and was found to a have multivessel CAD. He has a stent in his LAD and his obtuse marginal. Fairly stable.2. Dyspnea-Seems to be due to his weight and the disability from his knee. His echocardiogram shows no systolic or diastolic function.3. Knee pain-We well refer to Scotland Orthopedics and we will refill his prescription for Lorcet 60 pills with no refills.4. Dyslipidemia-Excellent numbers today with cholesterol of 115, HDL 45, triglycerides 187, and LDL 33, samples of Lipitor given.5. Panic attacks and anxiety-Xanax 0.5 mg b.i.d., 60 pills with no refills given.6. Abdominal pain-Asked to restart his omeprazole and I am also going to reduce his aspirin to 81 mg q.d.7. Prevention-I do not think he needs to be on the Plavix any more as he has been relatively stable for two years.PLAN:1. Discontinue Plavix.2. Aspirin reduced to 81 mg a day.3. Lorcet and Xanax prescriptions given.4. Refer over to Scotland Orthopedics.5. Peridex mouthwash given for his poor dentition and told he was cardiovascularly stable and have his teeth extracted."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:1. Ischemic cardiomyopathy.2. Status post redo coronary artery bypass.3. Status post insertion of intraaortic balloon.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:1. Ischemic cardiomyopathy.2. Status post redo coronary artery bypass.3. Status post insertion of intraaortic balloon.4. Postoperative coagulopathy.OPERATIVE PROCEDURE:1. Orthostatic cardiac allograft transplantation utilizing total cardiopulmonary bypass.2. Open sternotomy covered with Ioban.3. Insertion of Mahurkar catheter for hemofiltration via the left common femoral vein.ANESTHESIA: General endotracheal.OPERATIVE PROCEDURE: With the patient in the supine position, he was prepped from shin to knees and draped in a sterile field. A right common femoral artery vein were then exposed through a longitudinal incision in the right groin and prepared for cardiopulmonary bypass. A sternotomy incision was then opened and the lesions from the previous operative procedures were lysed and they were very dense and firm, freeing up the right atrium and the ascending aorta and anterior right ventricle. The patient was heparinized and then a pursestring suture was placed in the right atrium superior and inferior just above the superior and inferior vena cava. A percutaneous catheter for arterial return was placed using Seldinger technique through exposed right femoral artery and then two 3-mm catheters were inserted with two pursestring sutures in the right atrium just superior to inferior vena cava. After satisfactory heparinization has been obtained, the patient was placed on cardiopulmonary bypass and another pursestring suture was placed in the right superior pulmonary vein and a catheter was placed for suction in the left atrium. After the heart was brought to the operating room and triggered, the patient had the ascending aorta clamped and tapes were placed around superior and inferior vena cava and were secured in place. A cardiectomy was then performed by starting in the right atrium. The wires from the pacemaker and defibrillator were transected coming from the superior vena cava and the Swan-Ganz catheter was brought out into the operative field. Cardiectomy was then performed, first resecting the anterior portion of the right atrium and then transecting the aorta, the pulmonary artery, the septum between the right and left atriums, and then the heart was removed. The right and left atrium, aorta, and pulmonary artery were prepared for the transplant. First, we did a side-to-side anastomosis, continued to the left atrium and this was performed using 3-0 Prolene suture and a right atrial anastomosis side-to-side was performed using 3-0 Prolene suture. The pulmonary artery was then anastomosed using 5-0 Prolene and the aorta was anastomosed with 4-0 Prolene. The arterial anastomosis in the pulmonary artery and aorta were not completed until the heart was filled with blood. Air was evacuated and the sutures were tied down. The clamp on the ascending aorta was removed and the patient was gradually overtime weaned from cardiopulmonary bypass. The patient had a postoperative coagulopathy which prolonged the period of time in the operating room after completion and weaning off of the cardiopulmonary bypass. Blood factors and factor VII were given to try and correct the coagulopathy. Because of excessive transfusions that were required, a Mahurkar catheter was inserted through the left common femoral vein, first placing a needle into the vein and then guidewire removed, and the needle dilators were then placed and then the Mahurkar catheter was then placed with 2-0 nylon suture. Hemofiltration was started in the operating room at this time. After he had satisfactory hemostasis, we decided to do the chest open and cover it with Ioban, which we did, and one chest tube was inserted into the mediastinum through a separate stab wound. The patient also had an intraaortic balloon for counterpulsation which had been inserted into the left subclavian vein preoperatively. This was left in place and the pulse generation, the pacemaker was in a right infraclavicular position, which was left in place because of the coagulopathy. The patient received 11 units of packed red blood cells, 7 platelets, 23 fresh-frozen plasma, 20 cryoprecipitates, and factor VII. Urine output for the procedure was 520 mL. The preservation time of the heart is in the anesthesia sheet. The estimated blood loss was at least 6 L. The patient was taken to the intensive care unit in guarded condition."
"PROCEDURE: Left Cardiac Catheterization, Left Ventriculography, Coronary Angiography and Stent Placement.INDICATIONS: Atherosclerotic coronary artery disease.PATIENT HISTORY: This is a 55-year-old male. He presented with 3 hours of unstable angina.PAST CARDIAC HISTORY: History of previous arteriosclerotic cardiovascular disease. Previous ST elevation MI.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS. The creatinine value is 1.3 mg/dL mg/dL.PROCEDURE MEDICATIONS:1. Visipaque 361 mL total dose.2. Clopidogrel bisulphate (Plavix) 225 mg PO3. Promethazine (Phenergan) 12.5 mg total dose.4. Abciximab (Reopro) 10 mg IV bolus5. Abciximab (Reopro) 0.125 mcg/kg/minute, 4.5 mL/250 mL D5W x 17 mL6. Nitroglycerin 300 mcg IC total dose.DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE:APPROACH: Left heart catheterization via right femoral artery approach.ACCESS METHOD: Percutaneous needle puncture.DEVICES USED:1. Balloon catheter utilized: Manufacturer: Boston Sci Quantum Maverick RX 2.75mm x 20mm.2. Cordis Vista Brite Tip 6Fr JR 4.03. ACS/Guidant Sport .014\"\" (190cm) Wire4. Stent utilized: Boston Sci Taxus RX Stent 3.0mm x 32mm.FINDINGS/INTERVENTIONS:LEFT VENTRICULOGRAPHY: The overall left ventricular systolic function is mildly reduced. Left ventricular ejection fraction is 40% by left ventriculogram. Mild hypokinesis of the anterior wall of the left ventricle. There was no transaortic gradient. Mitral valve regurgitation is not seen.LEFT MAIN CORONARY ARTERY: There were no obstructing lesions in the left main coronary artery. Blood flow appeared normal.LEFT ANTERIOR DESCENDING ARTERY: There was a 95%, discrete stenosis in the mid left anterior descending artery. A drug eluting, Boston Sci Taxus RX Stent 3.0mm x 32mm stent was placed in the mid left anterior descending artery and post-dilated to 3.5 mm. Post-procedure stenosis was 0%. There was no dissection and no perforation.LEFT CIRCUMFLEX ARTERY: There was a 50%, diffuse stenosis in the left circumflex artery.RIGHT CORONARY ARTERY: The right coronary artery is dominant to the posterior circulation. There were no obstructing lesions in the right coronary artery. Blood flow appeared normal.COMPLICATIONS:There were no complications during the procedure.IMPRESSION:1. Severe two-vessel coronary artery disease.2. Severe left anterior descending coronary artery disease. There was a 95% mid left anterior descending artery stenosis. The lesion was successfully stented.3. Moderate left circumflex artery disease. There was a 50% left circumflex artery stenosis. Intervention not warranted.4. The overall left ventricular systolic function is mildly reduced with ejection fraction of 40%. Mild hypokinesis of the anterior wall of the left ventricle.RECOMMENDATION:1. Clopidogrel (Plavix) 75 mg PO daily for 1 year.2. Aggressive risk factor modification of tobacco abuse, hyperlipidemia and hypertension.CPT CODE(S):92980, LD, Transcatheter placement of an intracoronary stent(s), percutaneous, with or without other therapeutic intervention, any method; single vessel.93510, Left heart catheterization, retrograde, from the brachial artery, axillary artery or femoral artery; percutaneous.93556, 59, Imaging supervision, interpretation and report for injection procedure(s) during cardiac catheterization; pulmonary angiography, aortography, and/or selective coronary angiography including venous bypass grafts and arterial conduits (whether native or used in bypass).93555, 59, Imaging supervision, interpretation and report for injection procedure(s) during cardiac catheterization; ventricular and/or atrial angiography.93545, Injection procedure during cardiac catheterization; for selective coronary angiography (injection of radiopaque material may be by hand).93543, Injection procedure during cardiac catheterization; for selective left ventricular or left atrial angiography.ICD CODE(S): 414.01, Coronary atherosclerosis of native coronary artery."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Post infarct angina.TYPE OF PROCEDURE: Left cardiac catheterization with selective right and left coronary angiography.PROCEDURE: After informed consent was obtained, the patient was brought to the Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory, and the groin was prepped in the usual fashion. Using 1% lidocaine, the right groin was infiltrated, and using the Seldinger technique, the right femoral artery was cannulated. Through this, a moveable guidewire was then advance to the level of the diaphragm, and through it, a 6 French pigtail catheter was advanced under hemodynamic monitoring to the ascending aorta and inserted into the left ventricle. Pressure measurements were obtained and cineangiograms in the RAO and LAO positions were then obtained. Catheter was then withdrawn and a #6 French non-bleed-back sidearm sheath was then introduced, and through this, a 6 French Judkins left coronary catheter was then advanced under hemodynamic monitoring to the left coronary ostium, engaged. Cineangiograms were obtained of the left coronary system. This catheter was then exchanged for a Judkins right 4 coronary catheter of similar dimension and under hemodynamic monitoring again was advanced to the right coronary ostium, engaged. Cineangiograms were obtained, and the catheter and sheath were then withdrawn. The patient tolerated the procedure well and left the Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory in stable condition. No evidence of hematoma formation or active bleeding. COMPLICATIONS: None. TOTAL CONTRAST: 110 cc of Hexabrix. TOTAL FLUOROSCOPY TIME: 1.8 minutes. MEDICATIONS: Reglan 10 mg p.o., 5 mg p.o. Valium, Benadryl 50 mg p.o. and heparin 3,000 units IV push."
"EXAMINATION: Cardiac catheterization.PROCEDURE PERFORMED: Left heart catheterization, LV cineangiography, selective coronary angiography, and right heart catheterization with cardiac output by thermodilution technique with dual transducer.INDICATION: Syncope with severe aortic stenosis.COMPLICATIONS: None.DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: After informed consent was obtained from the patient, the patient was brought to the cardiac catheterization laboratory in a post observed state. The right groin was prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion. After adequate conscious sedation and local anesthesia was obtained, a 6-French sheath was placed in the right common femoral artery and a 8-French sheath was placed in the right common femoral vein. Following this, a 7.5-French Swan-Ganz catheter was advanced into the right atrium where the right atrial pressure was 10/7 mmHg. The catheter was then manipulated into the right ventricle where the right ventricular pressure was 37/10/4 mmHg. The catheter was then manipulated into the wedge position where the wedge pressure was noted to be 22 mmHg. The pulmonary arterial pressures were noted to be 31/14/21 mmHg. Following this, the catheter was removed, the sheath was flushed and a 6-French JL4 diagnostic catheter was the advanced over the guidewire and the left main coronary artery was cannulated and selective angiogram was obtained in orthogonal views. Following this, the catheter was exchanged over the guidewire for 6-French JR4 diagnostic catheter. We were unable to cannulate the right coronary artery. Therefore, we exchanged for a Williams posterior catheter and we were able to cannulate the right coronary artery and angiographs were performed in orthogonal views. Following this, this catheter was exchanged over a guidewire for a 6-French Langston pigtail catheter and the left ventricle was entered and left ventriculography was performed. Following this, the catheters were removed. Sheath angiograms revealed the sheath to be in the right common femoral artery and the right common femoral arteriotomy was sealed using a 6-French Angio-Seal device. The patient tolerated the procedure well. There were no complications.DESCRIPTION OF FINDINGS: The left main coronary artery is a large vessel, which bifurcates into the left anterior descending artery and left circumflex artery and has moderate diffuse luminal irregularities with no critical lesions. The left circumflex artery is a short vessel, which gives off one major obtuse marginal artery and has moderate diffuse luminal irregularities with no critical lesions. The left anterior descending artery has moderate diffuse luminal irregularities and gives off two major diagonal branches. There is a 70% ostial lesion in the first diagonal branch and the second diagonal branch has mild-to-moderate luminal irregularities. The right coronary artery is a very large dominant vessel with a 60% to 70% lesion in its descending mid-portion. The remainder of the vessel has moderate diffuse luminal irregularities with no critical lesions. The left ventricle appears to be normal sized. The aortic valve is heavily calcified. The estimated ejection fraction is approximately 60%. There was 4+ mitral regurgitation noted. The mean gradient across the aortic valve was noted to be 33 mmHg yielding an aortic valve area of 0.89 cm2.CONCLUSION:1. Moderate-to-severe coronary artery disease with a high-grade lesion seen at the ostium of the first diagonal artery as well as a 60% to 70% lesion seen at the mid portion of the right coronary artery.2. Moderate-to-severe aortic stenosis with an aortic valve area of 0.89 cm2.3. 4+ mitral regurgitation.PLAN: The patient will most likely need a transesophageal echocardiogram to better evaluate the valvular architecture and the patient will be referred to Dr Kenneth Fang for possible aortic valve replacement as well as mitral valve repair/replacement and possible surgical revascularization."
"INDICATIONS FOR PROCEDURE: A 51-year-old, obese, white female with positive family history of coronary disease and history of chest radiation for Hodgkin disease 20 years ago with no other identifiable risk factors who presents with an acute myocardial infarction with elevated enzymes. The chest pain occurred early Tuesday morning. She was treated with Plavix, Lovenox, etc., and transferred for coronary angiography and possible PCI. The plan was discussed with the patient and all questions answered.PROCEDURE NOTE: Following sterile prep and drape, the right groin and instillation of 1% Xylocaine anesthesia, the right femoral artery was percutaneously entered with a single wall puncture. A 6-French sheath inserted. Selective left and right coronary injections performed using Judkins coronary catheters with a 6-French pigtail catheter used to obtain left ventricle pressures, and a left ventriculography. The left pullback pressure. The catheters withdrawn. Sheath injection. Hemostasis obtained with a 6-French Angio-Seal device. She tolerated the procedure well.Left ventricular end-diastolic pressure equals 25 mmHg post A wave. No aortic valve or systolic gradient on pullback.ANGIOGRAPHIC FINDINGS:I. Left coronary artery: The left main coronary artery isnormal. The left anterior descending extends to the apex and has only minor luminal irregularities within the midportion of the vessel. Normal diagonal branches. Normal septal perforator branches. The left circumflex is a nondominant vessel with only minor irregularities with normal obtuse marginal branches.II. Right coronary artery: The proximal right coronary artery has a focal calcification. There is minor plaque with luminal irregularity in the proximal and midportion of the vessel with no narrowing greater than 10 to 20% at most. The right coronary artery is a dominant system which gives off normal posteriordescending and posterior lateral branches. TIMI 3 flow is present.III. Left ventriculogram: The left ventricle is slightly enlarged with normal contraction of the base, but, with wall motion abnormality involving the anteroapical and inferoapical left ventricle with hypokinesis within the apical portion. Ejection fraction estimated 40%, 1+ mitral regurgitation (echocardiogram ordered).DISCUSSION: Recent inferoapical mild myocardial infarction by left ventriculography and cardiac enzymes with elevated left ventricular end-diastolic pressure post A wave, but, only minor residual coronary artery plaque with calcification proximal right coronary artery.PLAN: Medical treatment is contemplated, including ACE inhibitor, a beta blocker, aspirin, Plavix, nitrates. An echocardiogram is ordered to exclude apical left ventricular thrombus and to further assess ejection fraction."
"EXAM: Left Heart CatheterizationREASON FOR EXAM: Chest pain, coronary artery disease, prior bypass surgery.INTERPRETATION: The procedure and complications were explained to the patient in detail and formal consent was obtained. The patient was brought to the cath lab. The right groin was draped in the usual sterile manner. Using modified Seldinger technique, a 6-French arterial sheath was introduced in the right common femoral artery. A JL4 catheter was used to cannulate the left coronary arteries. A JR4 catheter was used to cannulate the right coronary artery and also bypass grafts. The same catheter was used to cannulate the vein graft and also LIMA. I tried to attempt to cannulate other graft with Williams posterior catheter and also bypass catheter was unsuccessful. A 6-French pigtail catheter was used to perform left ventriculography and pullback was done. No gradient was noted. Arterial sheath was removed. Hemostasis was obtained with manual compression. The patient tolerated the procedure very well without any complications.FINDINGS:1. Native coronary arteries. The left main is patent. The left anterior descending artery is not clearly visualized. The circumflex artery appears to be patent. The proximal segment gives rise to small caliber obtuse marginal vessel.2. Right coronary artery is patent with mild distal and mid segment. No evidence of focal stenosis or dominant system.3. Bypass graft LIMA to the left anterior descending artery patent throughout the body as well the anastomotic site. There appears to be possible _______ graft to the diagonal 1 vessel. The distal LAD wraps around the apex. No stenosis following the anastomotic site noted.4. Vein graft to what appears to be obtuse marginal vessel was patent with a small caliber obtuse marginal 1 vessel.5. No other bypass grafts are noted by left ventriculography and also aortic root shot.6. Left ventriculography with an ejection fraction of 60%.IMPRESSION:1. Left coronary artery disease native.2. Patent vein graft with obtuse marginal vessel and also LIMA to LAD. _______ graft to the diagonal 1 vessel.3. Native right coronary artery is patent, mild disease.RECOMMENDATIONS: Medical treatment."
"A 60-year-old gentleman with markedly abnormal stress test in my office today who is admitted with significant angina with moderate anteroapical ischemia on nuclear perfusion stress imaging only. He has been referred for cardiac catheterization. I discussed the procedure in detail with the patient and his wife as well as perform a risk/benefit/alternative analysis with benefits being more definitive exclusion of significant obstructive coronary artery disease and evaluation of such to help guide further treatment, alternatives being alternative stress imaging or empiric medical therapy which I was not recommending nor was the patient interested in and risks including but not limited to and the patient and his wife were aware that this was not an all inclusive list of over-sedation from conscious sedation, risk of aspiration pneumonia from regurgitation of stomach contents, risk of excessive fluoroscopic exposure causing skin necrosis, risk of dye reaction as well as due to the inherent invasive nature of cardiac catheterization at least 1 in 1,000 risk of stroke, heart attack, heart failure, death, kidney failure, peripheral vascular disease, femoral arteriotomy access site complications including bleeding, need for surgical intervention of the femoral arteriotomy access site, aneurysmal formation, pseudoaneurysmal formation, and/or need for blood transfusions. The patient expressed understanding of this risk/benefit/alternative analysis and stated in a clear competent and coherent fashion that he wished to go forward with the cardiac catheterization which I felt was appropriate.The patient and his wife had the opportunity to ask questions, all of which were answered for them and the patient stated in a clear, competent and coherent fashion that he wished to go forward with cardiac catheterization which I felt was appropriate.PROCEDURE NOTE: The patient was brought to the Cardiac Catheterization Lab in a fasting state. All appropriate labs had been reviewed. Bilateral groins were prepped and draped in the usual fashion for sterile conditions. The appropriate time-out procedure was performed with appropriate identification of the patient, procedure, physician, position and documentation all done under my direct supervision and there were no safety issues raised by the staff. He received a total of 2 mg of Versed and 50 mcg of Fentanyl utilizing titrated concentration with good effect. Bilateral groins had been prepped and draped in the usual fashion. Right femoral inguinal fossa was anesthetized with 1% topical lidocaine and a 6-French vascular sheath was put into place percutaneously via guide-wire exchanger with a finder needle. All catheters were passed using a J-tipped guide-wire. Left heart catheterization and left ventriculography performed using a 6-French pigtail catheter. Left system coronary angiography performed using a 6-French JL4 catheter. Right system coronary angiography performed using a 6-French CDRC catheter. Following the procedure, all catheters were removed. Manual pressure was held with the Neptune pad and the patient was discharged back to his room. I inspected the femoral arteriotomy site after the procedure was complete and it was benign without evidence of hematoma nor bruit with intact distal pulses. There were no apparent complications. A total of 77 cc of Isovue dye and 1.4 minutes of fluoroscopy time were utilized during the case.FINDINGS:HEMODYNAMICS: LV pressure is 120, EDP is 20, aortic pressure 120/62, mean of 82.LV function is normal, EF 60%, no wall motion abnormalities.CORONARY ANATOMY:1. Left main demonstrates 30-40% distal left main lesion which is tapering, not felt significantly obstructive.2. The LAD demonstrates proximal moderate 50% lesion and a severe mid-LAD lesion immediately after the take-off of this large diagonal of 99% which is quite severe with TIMI-3 flow throughout the LAD and the left main.3. The left circumflex demonstrates mid-90% severe lesion with TIMI-3 flow.4. The right coronary artery was the dominant artery giving rise to right posterior descending artery demonstrates mild luminal irregularity. There is a moderate distal PDA lesion of 60% seen.IMPRESSION:1. Mild to moderate left main stenosis.2. Very severe mid-LAD stenosis with severe mid-left circumflex stenosis and moderate prox-LAD CAD.We are going to continue the patient's aspirin, beta blocker as heart rate tolerates as he tends to run on the bradycardic side and add statin. We will check a fasting lipid profile and ALT and titrate statin therapy to keep LDL of 70 mg/deciliter or less but in the past the patient's LDL had been higher or high."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Coronary artery disease.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Coronary artery disease plus intimal calcification in the mid abdominal aorta without significant stenosis.DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE:LEFT HEART CATHETERIZATION WITH ANGIOGRAPHY AND MID ABDOMINAL AORTOGRAPHY:Under local anesthesia with 2% lidocaine with premedication, a right groin preparation was done. Using the percutaneous Seldinger technique via the right femoral artery, a left heart catheterization was performed. Coronary arteriography was performed with 6-French performed coronary catheters. We used a 6-French JR4 and JL4 catheters to take multiple cineangiograms of the right and left coronary arteries. After using the JR4 6-French catheter, nitroglycerin was administered because of the possibility of ostial spasm, and following that, we used a 5-French JR4 catheter for additional cineangiograms of the right coronary artery. A pigtail catheter was placed in the mid abdominal aorta and abdominal aortic injection was performed to rule out abdominal aortic aneurysm, as there was dense calcification in the mid abdominal aorta.ANALYSIS OF PRESSURE DATA: Left ventricular end-diastolic pressure was 5 mmHg. On continuous tracing from the left ventricle to the ascending aorta, there is no gradient across the aortic valve. The aortic pressures were normal. Contours of intracardiac pressure were normal.ANALYSIS OF ANGIOGRAMS: Selective cineangiograms were obtained with injection of contrast to the left ventricle, coronary arteries, and mid abdominal aorta. A pigtail catheter was introduced into the left ventricle and ventriculogram performed in right anterior oblique position. The mitral valve is competent and demonstrates normal mobility. The left ventricular cavity is normal in size with excellent contractility. Aneurysmal dilatation and/or dyskinesia absent. The aortic valve is tricuspid and normal mobility. The ascending aorta appeared normal.Pigtail catheter was introduced in the mid abdominal aorta and placed just above the renal arteries. An abdominal aortic injection was performed. Under fluoroscopy, we see heavy dense calcification of the mid abdominal aorta between the renal artery and the bifurcation. There was some difficulty initially with maneuvering the wire pass that area and it was felt that might be a tight stenosis. The abdominal aortogram reveals wide patency of that area with mild intimal irregularity. There is a normal left renal artery, normal right renal artery. The celiac seems to be normal, but what I believe is the splenic artery seen initially at its origin is normal. The common left iliac and common right iliac arteries are essentially normal in this area.CORONARY ANATOMY: One notes ostial coronary calcification of the right coronary artery. Cineangiogram obtained with 6-French JR4 and 5-French JR4 catheters. Prior to the introduction of the 5-French JR4 nitroglycerin was administered sublingually. The 6-French JR4 catheters appeared to a show an ostial lesion of over 50%. There was backwash of dye into the aorta, although there is a fine funneling of the ostium towards the proximal right coronary artery. In the proximal portion of the right coronary artery just into the Shepherd turn, there is a 50% smooth tapering of the right coronary artery in the proximal third. Then the artery seems to have a little bit more normal size and it divides into a large posterior descending artery posterolateral branch vessel. The distal portion of the vessel is free of disease. The conus branch is seen arising right at the beginning part of the right coronary artery. We then removed the 6-French catheter and following nitroglycerin and sublingually we placed a 5-French catheter and again finding a stenosis, may be less than 50%. At the ostium of the right coronary artery, calcification again is identified. Backwash of dye noted at the proximal lesion, looked about the same 50% along the proximal turn of the Shepherd turn area.The left coronary artery is normal, although there is a rim of ostial calcification, but there is no tapering or stenosis. It forms the left anterior descending artery, the ramus branch, and the circumflex artery.The left anterior descending artery is a very large vessel, very tortuous in its proximal segment, very tortuous in its mid and distal segment. There appears to be some mild stenosis of 10% in the proximal segment. It gives off a large diagonal branch in the proximal portion of the left anterior descending artery and it is free of disease. The remaining portion of the left anterior descending artery is free of disease. Upon injection of the left coronary artery, we see what I believe is the dye enters probably directly into the left ventricle, but via fistula excluding the coronary sinus, and we get a ventriculogram performed. I could not identify an isolated area, but it seems to be from the interventricular septal collaterals that this is taking place.The ramus branch is normal and free of disease.The left circumflex artery is a tortuous vessel over the lateral wall and terminating in the inferoposterior wall that is free of disease.The patient has a predominantly right coronary system. There is no _______ circulation connecting the right and left coronary systems.The patient tolerated the procedure well. The catheter was removed. Hemostasis was achieved. The patient was transferred to the recovery room in a stable condition.IMPRESSION:1. Excellent left ventricular contractility with normal left ventricular cavity size.2. Calcification of the mid abdominal aorta with wide patency of all vessels. The left and right renal arteries are normal. The external iliac arteries are normal.3. Essentially normal left coronary artery with some type of interventricular septal to left ventricular fistula.4. Ostial stenosis of the right coronary artery that appears to be about 50% or greater. The proximal right coronary artery has 50% stenosis as well.5. Coronary calcification is seen under fluoroscopy at the ostia of the left and right coronary arteries.RECOMMENDATIONS: The patient has heavy calcification of the coronary arteries and continued risk factor management is needed. The ostial lesion of the right coronary artery may be severe. It is at least 50%, but it could be worse. Therefore, she will be evaluated for the possibility of an IVUS and/or _______ analysis of the proximal right coronary artery. We will reevaluate her stress nuclear study as well. Continue aggressive medical therapy."
"INDICATIONS FOR PROCEDURE: The patient has presented with atypical type right arm discomfort and neck discomfort. She had noninvasive vascular imaging demonstrating suspected right subclavian stenosis. Of note, there was bidirectional flow in the right vertebral artery, as well as 250 cm per second velocities in the right subclavian. Duplex ultrasound showed at least a 50% stenosis.APPROACH: Right common femoral artery.ANESTHESIA: IV sedation with cardiac catheterization protocol. Local infiltration with 1% Xylocaine.COMPLICATIONS: None.ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: Less than 10 ml.ESTIMATED CONTRAST: Less than 250 ml.PROCEDURE PERFORMED: Right brachiocephalic angiography, right subclavian angiography, selective catheterization of the right subclavian, selective aortic arch angiogram, right iliofemoral angiogram, 6 French Angio-Seal placement.DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: The patient was brought to the cardiac catheterization lab in the usual fasting state. She was laid supine on the cardiac catheterization table, and the right groin was prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion. 1% Xylocaine was infiltrated into the right femoral vessels. Next, a #6 French sheath was introduced into the right femoral artery via the modified Seldinger technique.AORTIC ARCH ANGIOGRAM: Next, a pigtail catheter was advanced to the aortic arch. Aortic arch angiogram was then performed with injection of 45 ml of contrast, rate of 20 ml per second, maximum pressure 750 PSI in the 4 degree LAO view.SELECTIVE SUBCLAVIAN ANGIOGRAPHY: Next, the right subclavian was selectively cannulated. It was injected in the standard AP, as well as the RAO view. Next pull back pressures were measured across the right subclavian stenosis. No significant gradient was measured.ANGIOGRAPHIC DETAILS: The right brachiocephalic artery was patent. The proximal portion of the right carotid was patent. The proximal portion of the right subclavian prior to the origin of the vertebral and the internal mammary showed 50% stenosis.IMPRESSION:1. Moderate grade stenosis in the right subclavian artery.2. Patent proximal edge of the right carotid."
"INDICATIONS FOR PROCEDURE: This is a 61-year-old, white male with onset of chest pain at 04: 30 this morning, with history of on and off chest discomfort over the past several days. CPK is already over 1000. There is ST elevation in leads II and aVF, as well as a Q wave. The chest pain is now gone, mild residual shortness of breath, no orthopnea. Cardiac monitor shows resolution of ST elevation lead III.DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: Following sterile prep and drape of the right groin, installation of 1% Xylocaine anesthesia, the right common femoral artery was percutaneously entered and 6-French sheath inserted. ACT approximately 165 seconds on heparin. Borderline hypotension 250 mL fluid bolus given and nitroglycerin patch removed. Selective left and right coronary injections performed using Judkins coronary catheters with a 6-French pigtail catheter used to obtain left ventricular pressures and left ventriculography. Left pullback pressure. Sheath injection. Hemostasis obtained with a 6-French Angio-Seal device. He tolerated the procedure well and was transported to the Cardiac Step-Down Unit in stable condition.HEMODYNAMIC DATA: Left ventricular end diastolic pressure elevated post A-wave at 25 mm of Mercury with no aortic valve systolic gradient on pullback.ANGIOGRAPHIC FINDINGS:I. Left coronary artery: The left main coronary artery is unremarkable. The left anterior descending has 30 to 40% narrowing with tortuosity in its proximal portion, patent first septal perforator branch. The first diagonal branch is a 2 mm vessel with a 90% ostial stenosis. The second diagonal branch is unremarkable, as are the tiny distal diagonal branches. The intermediate branch is a small, normal vessel. The ostial non-dominant circumflex has some contrast thinning, but no stenosis, normal obtuse marginal branch, and small AV sulcus circumflex branch.II. Right coronary artery: The right coronary artery is a large, dominant vessel which gives off large posterior descending and posterolateral left ventricular branches. There are luminal irregularities, less than 25%, within the proximal to mid vessel. Some contrast thinning is present in the distal RCA just before the bifurcation into posterior descending and posterolateral branches. A 25%, smooth narrowing at the origin of the posterior descending branch. Posterolateral branch is unremarkable and quite large, with secondary and tertiary branches.III. Left ventriculogram: The left ventricle is normal in size. Ejection fraction estimated at 40 to 45%. No mitral regurgitation. Severe hypokinesis to akinesis is present in the posterobasal and posteromedial segments with normal anteroapical wall motion.DISCUSSION: Recent inferior myocardial infarction with only minor contrast thinning distal RCA remaining on coronary angiography with resolution of chest pain and ST segment elevation. Left coronary system has one hemodynamically significant stenosis (a 90% ostial stenosis at the first diagonal branch, which is a 2 mm vessel). Left ventricular function is reduced with ejection fraction 40 to 45% with inferior wall motion abnormality.PLAN: Medical treatment, including Plavix and nitrates, in addition to beta blocker, aspirin, and aggressive lipid reduction."
"PROCEDURES PERFORMED:1. Left heart catheterization with coronary angiography and left ventricular pressure measurement.2. Left ventricular angiography was not performed.3. Right posterior descending artery percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty followed by stenting.4. Right femoral artery angiography.5. Perclose to seal the right femoral arteriotomy.INDICATIONS FOR PROCEDURE: Patient presenting with a history of coronary artery disease in the past with coronary angiography in the early 1990s. The patient presented with what appeared to be a COPD exacerbation and had mildly positive cardiac enzyme markers suggestive of a non-ST elevation myocardial infarction. He was subsequently dispositioned to the cardiac catheterization lab for further evaluation.DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: After informed consent was obtained, the patient was taken to the cardiac catheterization lab, where his procedure was performed. The patient was appropriately prepped and prepared on the table, after which his right groin was locally anesthetized with 1% lidocaine. Then, a 6-French sheath was inserted into the right femoral artery. Over a standard 0.035 guidewire, coronary angiography and left ventricular pressure measurements were performed using a 6-French JL4 diagnostic catheter to image the left coronary artery, a 6-French JR4 diagnostic catheter to image the right coronary artery, a 6-French angled pigtail catheter to measure left ventricular pressure. At the conclusion of the diagnostic study, the case was progressed to percutaneous coronary intervention, which will be described below. Subsequently, right femoral artery angiography was performed which showed right femoral artery which was free of significant atherosclerotic plaque, and an arteriotomy that was suitable for a closure device. Then, a Perclose was used to seal the right femoral arteriotomy.HEMODYNAMIC DATA: The opening aortic pressure was 91/63. The left ventricular pressure was 94/13 with an end-diastolic pressure of 24. Left ventricular ejection fraction was not assessed, as ventriculogram was not performed. The patient did have some elevated creatinine earlier in this hospital course which warranted limitation of contrast where possible.CORONARY ANGIOGRAM: The left main coronary artery was angiographically okay. The LAD had mild diffuse disease. There appeared to be distal tapering of the LAD. The left circumflex had mild diffuse disease. In the very distal aspect of the circumflex after OM-3 and OM-4 type branch, there was a long, severely diseased segment that appeared to be chronic and subtotal in one area. The runoff from this area appeared to be a very small PLOM type branch and continuation of a circ which did not appear to supply much territory, and there was not much to salvage by approaching this lesion. The right coronary artery had mild diffuse disease. The PLV branch was 100% occluded at its ostium at the crux. The PDA at the ostium had an 80% stenosis. The PDA was a fairly sizeable vessel with a long course. The right coronary is dominant.CONCLUSION: Mild diffuse coronary artery disease with severe distal left circumflex lesion with not much runoff beyond this lesion. This circumflex appears to be chronically diseased and has areas that appear to be subtotal. There is a 100% PLV branch which is also chronic and reported in his angiogram in the 1990s. There is an ostial 80% right PDA lesion. The plan is to proceed with percutaneous intervention to the right PDA.The case was then progressed to percutaneous intervention of the right PDA. A 6-French JR4 guide catheter with side holes was selected and used to engage the right coronary artery ostium. The lesion was crossed with a long BMW 0.014 guidewire. Then, we ballooned the lesion with a 2.5 x 9 mm Maverick balloon. Subsequently, we stented the lesion with a 2.5 x 16 mm Taxus drug-eluting stent with a nice angiographic result. The patient tolerated the procedure very well, without complications.ANGIOPLASTY CONCLUSION: Successful percutaneous intervention with drug-eluting stent placement to the ostium of the PDA.RECOMMENDATIONS: Aspirin indefinitely, and Plavix 75 mg p.o. daily for no less than six months. The patient will be dispositioned back to telemetry for further monitoring.TOTAL MEDICATIONS DURING PROCEDURE: Versed 1 mg and fentanyl 25 mcg for conscious sedation. Heparin 8400 units IV was given for anticoagulation. Ancef 1 g IV was given for closure device prophylaxis.CONTRAST ADMINISTERED: 200 mL.FLUOROSCOPY TIME: 12.4 minutes."
"PROCEDURE PERFORMED:1. Left heart catheterization with coronary angiography, vein graft angiography and left ventricular pressure measurement and angiography.2. Right femoral selective angiogram.3. Closure device the seal the femoral arteriotomy using an Angio-Seal.INDICATIONS FOR PROCEDURE: The patient with known coronary atherosclerotic heart disease and multiple risk factors of coronary disease, who had her last coronary arteriogram performed in 2004. She has had complaints of progressive chest discomfort, and has ongoing risks including current smoking, diabetes, hypertension, hyperlipidemia to name a few. The decision was made to proceed on with percutaneous evaluation and possible intervention given her known disease and the possibility of disease progression.DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: After informed consent was obtained, The patient was taken to cardiac catheterization lab where her procedure was performed. She was prepped and prepared on the table; after which, her right groin was locally anesthetized with 1% lidocaine. Then, a 6-French sheath was inserted into the right femoral artery over a standard 0.035 guide wire. Coronary angiography and left ventricular measurement and angiography were performed using a 6-French JL4 diagnostic catheter to image the left coronary artery. A 6-French JR4 diagnostic catheter to image the right groin and her artery and the saphenous vein graft conduit. Subsequently, a 6-French angled pigtail catheter was used to measure left ventricular pressures and to perform a power injection, a left ventriculogram at 8 mL per second for a total of 30 mL. At the conclusion of the diagnostic evaluation, the patient had selective arteriography of her right femoral artery, which showed the right femoral artery to be free of significant atherosclerotic plaque. Did have a normal bifurcation into the superficial femoral and profunda femoris arteries and to have an arteriotomy that was in the common femoral artery away from the bifurcation. As such, an initial attempt to advance a Perclose device failed to allow the device descend to _____ tract and into the appropriate position within the artery. As such, the Perclose was never deployed and was removed intact over the wire from the system. We then replaced this with a 6-French Angio-Seal which was used to seal the femoral arteriotomy with achievement of hemostasis. The patient was subsequently dispositioned back to the MAC Unit where she will complete her bedrest prior to her disposition to home.HEMODYNAMIC DATA: Opening aortic pressure 125/60, left ventricular pressure 108/4 with an end-diastolic pressure of 16. There was no significant gradient across the aortic valve on pullback from the left ventricle. Left ventricular ejection fraction was 55%. Mitral regurgitation was less than or equal to 1+. There was normal wall motion in the RAO projection.CORONARY ANGIOGRAM: The left main coronary artery had mild atherosclerotic plaque. The proximal LAD was 100% occluded. The left circumflex had mild diffuse atherosclerotic plaque. The obtuse marginal branch which operates as an OM-2 had a mid approximately 80% stenosis at a kink in the artery. This appears to be the area of a prior anastomosis, the saphenous vein graft to the OM. This is a very small-caliber vessel and is 1.5-mm in diameter at best. The right coronary artery is dominant. The native right coronary artery had mild proximal and mid atherosclerotic plaque. The distal right coronary artery has an approximate 40% stenosis. The posterior left ventricular branch has a proximal 50 to 60% stenosis. The proximal PDA has a 40 to 50% stenosis. The saphenous vein graft to the right PDA is widely patent. There was competitive flow noted between the native right coronary artery and the saphenous vein graft to the PDA. The runoff from the PDA is nice with the native proximal PDA and PLV disease as noted above. There is also some retrograde filling of the right coronary artery from the runoff of this graft. The saphenous vein graft to the left anterior descending is widely patent. The LAD beyond the distal anastomosis is a relatively small-caliber vessel. There is some retrograde filling that allows some filling into a more proximal diagonal branch. The saphenous vein graft to the obtuse marginal was known to be occluded from the prior study in 2004. Overall, this study does not look markedly different than the procedure performed in 2004.CONCLUSION: 100% proximal LAD mild left circumflex disease with an OM that is a small-caliber vessel with an 80% lesion at a kink that is no amenable to percutaneous intervention. The native right coronary artery has mild to moderate distal disease with moderate PLV and PDA disease. The saphenous vein graft to the OM is known to be 100% occluded. The saphenous vein graft to the PDA and the saphenous vein graft to the LAD are open. Normal left ventricular systolic function.PLAN: The plan will be for continued medical therapy and risk factor modification. Aggressive antihyperlipidemic and antihypertensive control. The patient's goal LDL will be at or below 70 with triglyceride level at or below 150, and it is very imperative that the patient stop smoking.After her bedrest is complete, she will be dispositioned to home, after which, she will be following up with me in the office within 1 month. We will also plan to perform a carotid duplex Doppler ultrasound to evaluate her carotid bruits."
"PRECATHETERIZATION DIAGNOSIS (ES): Hypoplastic left heart, status post Norwood procedure and Glenn shunt.POSTCATHETERIZATION DIAGNOSIS (ES):1. Hypoplastic left heart.A. Status post Norwood.B. Status post Glenn.2. Left pulmonary artery hypoplasia.3. Diminished right ventricular systolic function.4. Trivial neo-aortic stenosis.5. Trivial coarctation.6. Flow to right upper lobe more than left upper lobe from collaterals arising from branches of the aortic arch.PROCEDURE (S): Right heart and left heart catheterization by way of right femoral artery, right femoral vein, and right internal jugular vein.I. PROCEDURES: XXXXXX was brought to the catheterization lab and was anesthetized by anesthesia. He was intubated. His supplemental oxygen was weaned to 24%, on which all of his hemodynamics were obtained. The patient was prepped and draped in the routine sterile fashion, including both groins and the right neck. Xylocaine was administered in the right femoral area. A 6-French sheath was introduced into the right femoral vein percutaneously without complication. A 4-French sheath was introduced into the right femoral artery percutaneously without complication. A 4-French pigtail catheter was introduced and passed to the abdominal aorta.Dr. Hayes, using the SiteRite device, introduced a 5-French sheath into the right internal jugular vein without complication.A 5-French wedge catheter was introduced through the sheath in the right internal jugular vein and was passed to the left pulmonary artery and further to the left pulmonary capillary wedge position. This catheter would not pass to the right pulmonary artery. The wedge catheter was removed. A 5-French IMA catheter was then introduced and passed to the right pulmonary artery. After right pulmonary artery pressure was measured, this catheter was removed.The 5 wedge catheter was advanced through the right femoral sheath and was passed to the following chambers or vessels: Inferior vena cava, right atrium, left atrium, and right ventricle.The previously introduced 4 pigtail catheter was advanced to the ascending aorta. Simultaneous right ventricular and ascending aortic pressures were measured. A pullback from ascending aorta to descending aorta was then performed. Simultaneous measurements of right ventricular and descending aortic pressures were measured.The wedge catheter was removed. A 5-French Berman catheter was advanced down the Glenn shunt to the right pulmonary artery, where a pullback from right pulmonary artery to Glenn shunt was performed. An injection was then performed using Omnipaque 16 mL at 8 mL per second with the Berman catheter positioned in the Glenn shunt. The 5-French Berman was removed.A 6-French Berman was introduced through the right femoral vein sheath and was advanced to the right ventricle. A right ventriculogram was performed using Omnipaque 18 mL at 12 mL per second. The Berman catheter was pulled back to the inferior vena cava, where an inferior vena cavagram was performed using Omnipaque 10 mL at 8 mL per second.The 4-French pigtail catheter was advanced to the ascending aorta and an ascending aortogram was performed using Omnipaque 16 mL at 12 mL per second.Following the ascending angiograms, two kidneys and a bladder were noted. The catheters and sheaths were removed, and hemostasis was obtained by direct pressure. The estimated blood loss was less than 30 mL, and none was replaced. Heparin was administered following placement of all of the sheaths. Pulse oximetry saturation, pulse in the right foot, and EKG were monitored continuously.II. PRESSURES:A. Left pulmonary artery, mean of 11; left capillary wedge, mean of 9; main pulmonary artery, mean of 12; right pulmonary artery, mean of 10; descending aorta, 75/45, mean of 57; right atrium, A6 to 9, V6 to 8, mean 7; left atrium, mean 8; inferior vena cava, mean 7.B. Ascending aorta, 65/35, with a simultaneous right ventricular pressure of 70/10; descending aorta, 60/35, with a right ventricular pressure of 72/10.C. Pullbacks, left pulmonary artery to main pulmonary artery, mean of 11 to mean of 12; main pulmonary artery to Glenn, mean of 12 to mean of 13; right pulmonary artery to Glenn, mean of 12 to mean of 13; ascending aorta 68/35 to descending aorta 62/35.INTERPRETATION: Right and left pulmonary artery pressures are appropriate for this situation. There is a gradient of, at most, 2 mmHg on pullback from both the right and left pulmonary arteries to the Glenn shunt. The left atrial mean pressure is normal. Right ventricular end-diastolic pressure is, at most, slightly elevated. There is a trivial gradient between the right ventricle and ascending aorta consistent with trivial neo-aortic valve stenosis. There is a roughly 10-mm gradient between the right ventricle and descending aorta, consistent with additional coarctation of the aorta. On pullback from ascending to descending aorta, there is a 6-mmHg gradient between the two. Systemic blood pressure is normal.III. OXIMETRY: Superior vena cava 65, right pulmonary artery 67, left pulmonary artery 65, left atrium 96, right atrium 87, inferior vena cava 69, aorta 86, right ventricle 83.INTERPRETATION: Systemic arteriovenous oxygenation difference is normal, consistent with a normal cardiac output. Left atrial saturation is fairly normal, consistent with normal oxygenation in the lungs. The saturation falls passing from the left atrium to the right atrium and further to the right ventricle, consistent with mixing of pulmonary venous return and inferior vena cava return, as would be expected in this patient.IV. SPECIAL PROCEDURE (S): None done.V. CALCULATIONS:Please see the calculation sheet. Calculations were based upon an assumed oxygen consumption. The _____ saturation used was 67%, with a pulmonary artery saturation of 65%, a left atrial saturation of 96%, and an aortic saturation of 86%. Using the above information, the pulmonary to systemic flow ratio was 0.6. Systemic blood flow was 5.1 liters per minute per meter squared. Pulmonary blood flow was 3.2 liters per minute per meter squared. Systemic resistance was 9.8 Wood's units times meter squared, which is mildly diminished. Pulmonary resistance was 2.5 Wood's units times meter squared, which is in the normal range.VI. ANGIOGRAPHY: The injection to the Glenn shunt demonstrates a wide-open Glenn connection. The right pulmonary artery is widely patent, without stenosis. The proximal portion of the left pulmonary artery is significantly narrowed, but does open up near its branch point. The right pulmonary artery measures 6.5, the left pulmonary artery measures 3.0 mm. The aorta at the diaphragm on a later injection was 5.5 mm. There is a small collateral off the innominate vein passing to the left upper lobe. Flow to both upper lobes is diminished versus lower lung fields. There is normal return of the pulmonary veins from the right, with simultaneous filling of the left atrium and right atrium. There is normal return of the left lower pulmonary vein and left upper pulmonary vein. There is some reflux of dye into the inferior vena cava from the right atrium.The right ventriculogram demonstrates a heavily pedunculated right ventricle with somewhat depressed right ventricular systolic function. The calculated ejection fraction from the LAO projection is only mildly diminished at 59%. There is no significant tricuspid regurgitation. The neo-aortic valve appears to open well with no stenosis. The ascending aorta is dilated. There is mild narrowing of the aorta at the isthmal area. On some projections, there appears to be a partial duplication of the aortic arch, probably secondary to this patient's style of Norwood reconstruction. There is some filling of the right upper and left upper lobes from collateral blood flow, with the left being more opacified than the right.The inferior vena cavagram demonstrates normal return of the inferior vena cava to the right atrium.The ascending aortogram demonstrates trivial aortic insufficiency, which is probably catheter-induced. The coronary arteries are poorly seen. Again, a portion of the aorta appears to be partially duplicated. There is faint opacification of the left upper lung from collateral blood flow. The above-mentioned narrowing of the aortic arch is again noted."
"INDICATIONS FOR PROCEDURE: The patient has presented with crushing-type substernal chest pain, even in the face of a normal nuclear medicine study. She is here for catheterization.APPROACH: Right common femoral artery.ANESTHESIA: IV sedation per cardiac catheterization protocol. Local sedation with 1% Xylocaine.COMPLICATIONS: None.ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: Less than 10 mL.ESTIMATED CONTRAST: Less than 150 mL.PROCEDURES PERFORMED: Left heart catheterization, left ventriculogram, selective coronary arteriography, aortic arch angiogram, right iliofemoral angiogram, #6 French Angio-Seal placement.OPERATIVE TECHNIQUE: The patient was brought to the cardiac catheterization lab in the usual fasting state. She was placed supine on the cardiac catheterization table and the right groin was prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion. One percent Xylocaine was infiltrated into the right femoral vessels. Next, a #6 French sheath was then placed in the right common femoral artery by the modified Seldinger technique.SELECTIVE CORONARY ARTERIOGRAPHY: Next, right and left Judkins diagnostic catheters were advanced through their respective ostia and injected in multiple views.LEFT VENTRICULOGRAM: Next, a pigtail catheter was advanced across the aortic valve and left ventricular pressure recorded. Next, an LV-gram was then performed with a hand injection of 50 mL of contrast. Next, pull-back pressure was measured across the aortic valve.AORTA ARCH ANGIOGRAM: Next, aortic arch angiogram was then performed with injection of 50 mL of contrast at a rate of 20 mL/second to maximum pressure of 750 PSI performed in the 40-degree LAO view.Next, right iliofemoral angiogram was performed in the 20-degree RAO view. Next Angio-Seal was applied successfully.The patient left the cath lab without problems or issues.DIAGNOSES: Left ventricular end-diastolic pressure was 18 mmHg. There was no gradient across the aortic valve. The central aortic pressure was 160 mmHg.LEFT VENTRICULOGRAM: The left ventriculogram demonstrated normal LV systolic function with estimated ejection fraction greater than 50%.AORTIC ARCH ANGIOGRAM: The aortic arch angiogram demonstrated normal aortic arch. No aortic regurgitation was seen.SELECTIVE CORONARY ARTERIOGRAPHY: The right coronary artery is large and dominant.The left main is patent.The left anterior descending is patent.The left circumflex is patent.IMPRESSION: This study demonstrates normal coronary arteries in the presence of normal left ventricular systolic function. In addition, the aortic root is normal."
"PROCEDURE PERFORMED:1. Right femoral artery access.2. Selective right and left coronary angiogram.3. Left heart catheterization.4. Left ventriculogram.INDICATIONS FOR PROCEDURE: A 50-year-old lady with known history of coronary artery disease with previous stenting to the left anterior descending artery presents with symptoms of shortness of breath. The resting echocardiogram showed a severe decrease in her left ventricular systolic function with a reported LVEF of 20% to 25%. This was a sharp decline from a previous LVEF of 50% to 55%. We therefore, decided to proceed with coronary angiography.TECHNIQUE: After obtaining informed consent, the patient was brought to the cardiac catheterization suite in post-absorptive and non-sedated state. The right groin was prepped and draped in the usual sterile manner. 2% Lidocaine was used for infiltration anesthesia. Using modified Seldinger technique, a 6-French sheath was introduced into the right femoral artery. 6-French JL4 and JR4 diagnostic catheters were used to perform the left and right coronary angiogram. A 6-French pigtail catheter was used to perform the LV-gram in the RAO projection.HEMODYNAMIC DATA: LVEDP of 11. There was no gradient across the aortic valve upon pullback.ANGIOGRAPHIC FINDINGS:1. The left main coronary artery is a very short vessel and immediately bifurcates into the left anterior descending artery and the left circumflex coronary artery.2. The left main coronary artery is free of any disease.3. The left circumflex coronary artery which is a nondominant vessel gives off 2 marginal branches. The first marginal branch is very small in caliber and runs a fairly long course and is free of any disease.4. The second marginal branch which is actually a continuation of the left circumflex coronary artery gives off several secondary branches. One of its secondary branches which is a small caliber has an ostial 70% stenosis.5. The left anterior descending artery has a patent stent in the proximal LAD. The second stent which is overlapping the junction of the mid and distal left anterior descending artery has mild late luminal loss. There appears to be 30% narrowing involving the distal cuff segment of the stent in the distal left anterior descending artery. The diagonal branches are free of any disease.6. The right coronary artery is a dominant vessel and has mild luminal irregularities. Its midsegment has a focal area of 30% narrowing as well. The rest of the right coronary artery is free of any disease.7. The LV-gram performed in the RAO projection shows well preserved left ventricular systolic function with an estimated LVEF of 55%.RECOMMENDATION: Continue with optimum medical therapy. Because of the discrepancy between the left ventriculogram EF assessment and the echocardiographic EF assessment, I have discussed this matter with Dr. XYZ and we have decided to proceed with a repeat 2D echocardiogram. The mild disease in the distal left anterior descending artery with mild in-stent re-stenosis should be managed medically with optimum control of hypertension and hypercholesterolemia."
"EXAM: Cardiac catheterization and coronary intervention report.PROCEDURES:1. Left heart catheterization, coronary angiography, left ventriculography.2. PTCA/Endeavor stent, proximal LAD.INDICATIONS: Acute anterior ST-elevation MI.ACCESS: Right femoral artery 6-French.MEDICATIONS:1. IV Valium.2. IV Benadryl.3. Subcutaneous lidocaine.4. IV heparin.5. IV ReoPro.6. Intracoronary nitroglycerin.ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: 10 mL.CONTRAST: 185 mL.COMPLICATIONS: None.PROCEDURE: The patient was brought to the cardiac catheterization laboratory with acute ST-elevation MI and EKG. She was prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion. The right femoral region was infiltrated with subcutaneous lidocaine, adequate anesthesia was obtained. The right femoral artery was entered with _______ modified Seldinger technique and a J wire was passed. The needle was exchanged for 6 French sheath. The wire was removed. The sheath was washed with sterile saline. Following this, the left coronary was attempted to be cannulated with an XP catheter, however, the catheter folded on itself and could not reach the left main, this was removed. A second 6-French JL4 guiding catheter was then used to cannulate the left main and initial guiding shots demonstrated occlusion of the proximal LAD. The patient had an ACT check, received additional IV heparin and IV ReoPro. The lesion was crossed with 0.014 BMW wire and redilated with a 2.5 x 20-mm balloon at nominal pressures. The balloon was deflated and angiography demonstrated establishment of flow. Following this, the lesion was stented with a 2.5 x 18-mm Endeavor stent at 10 atmospheres. The balloon was deflated, reinflated at 12 atmospheres, deflated and removed. Final angiography demonstrated excellent clinical result. Additional angiography was performed with a wire out. Following this, the wire and the catheter was removed. Following this, the right coronary was selectively cannulated with diagnostic catheter and angiographic views were obtained in multiple views. This catheter was removed. The pigtail catheter was placed in the left ventricle and left ventriculography was performed with pullback pressures across the aortic valve. At the end of procedure, wires and catheter were removed. Right femoral angiography was performed and a right femoral Angio-Seal kit was deployed at the right femoral arteriotomy site. There was no hematoma. Peripheral pulses _______ procedure. The patient tolerated the procedure well. Symptoms of chest pain resolved at the end of the procedure with no complications.RESULTS:1. Coronary angiography.A. Left main free of obstruction.B. LAD, subtotal proximal stenosis.C. Circumflex large vessel with three large obtuse marginal branches. No high-grade obstruction, evidence of minimal plaquing.D. Right coronary 70% mid vessel stenosis and 50% mid to distal stenosis before giving rise to a right dominant posterior lateral and posterior descending artery.2. Left ventriculogram. Left ventricular ejection fraction estimated at 45% to 50%. There was an akinetic apical wall.3. Hemodynamics. Aortic pressure 145/109, left ventricular pressure 147/13, left ventricular end-diastolic pressure 34 mmHg.IMPRESSION:1. Acute ST-elevation myocardial infarction, culprit lesion, left anterior descending occlusion.2. Two-vessel coronary disease.3. Mild-to-moderate impaired LV systolic function.4. Successful stent left anterior descending, 100% occlusion, 0% residual stenosis.PLAN: Overnight observation in ICU. Start aspirin, Plavix, beta-blocker and ACE inhibitor. Check serial cardiac enzymes. Further recommendations to follow. Check fasting lipid panel, in addition add a statin. Further recommendations to follow."
"HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Mr. A is a 50-year-old gentleman with a history of atrial fibrillation in the past, more recently who has had atrial flutter, who estimates he has had six cardioversions since 10/09, and estimates that he has had 12 to 24 in his life beginning in 2006 when the atrial fibrillation first emerged. He, since 10:17 p.m. on 01/17/10, noted recurrence of his atrial fibrillation, called our office this morning, that is despite being on flecainide, atenolol, and he is maintained on Coumadin.The patient has noted some lightheadedness as well as chest discomfort and shortness of breath when atrial flutter recurred and we see that on his 12-lead EKG here. Otherwise, no chest pain.PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for atrial fibrillation/atrial flutter and again he had atrial fibrillation more persistently in 2006, but more recently it has been atrial flutter and that is despite use of antiarrhythmics including flecainide. He completed a stress test in my office within the past several weeks that was normal without evidence of ischemia. Other medical history is significant for hyperlipidemia.MEDICATIONS:As outpatient,1. Atenolol 25 mg once a day.2. Altace 2.5 mg once a day.3. Zocor 20 mg once a day.4. Flecainide 200 in the morning and 100 in the evening.5. Coumadin as directed by our office.ALLERGIES: TO MEDICATIONS ARE NONE. HE DENIES SHRIMP, SEA FOOD OR DYE ALLERGY.FAMILY HISTORY: He has a nephew who was his sister's son who passed away at age 22 reportedly from an MI, but was reported to have hypertrophic cardiomyopathy as well. The patient has previously met with the electrophysiologist, Dr. X, at General Hospital and it sounds like he had a negative EP study.SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient does not smoke cigarettes, abuse alcohol nor drink any caffeine. No use of illicit drugs. He has been married for 22 years and he is actually accompanied throughout today's cardiology consultation by his wife. He is not participating in regular exercises now because he states since starting flecainide, he has gotten sluggish. He is employed as an attorney and while he states that overall his mental stress is better, he has noted more recent mental stress this past weekend when he was taking his daughter back to college.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: He denies any history of stroke, cancer, vomiting of blood, coughing up blood, bright red blood per rectum, bleeding stomach ulcers, renal calculi. There are some questions especially as his wife has told me that he may have obstructive sleep apnea and not had a formal sleep study.PHYSICAL EXAM: Blood pressure 156/93, pulse is 100, respiratory rate 18. On general exam, he is a pleasant overweight gentleman, in no acute distress. HEENT: Shows cranium is normocephalic and atraumatic. He has moist mucosal membranes. Neck veins are not distended. There are no carotid bruits. Visible skin warm and perfused. Affect appropriate. He is quite oriented and pleasant. No significant kyphoscoliosis on recumbent back exam. Lungs are clear to auscultation anteriorly. No wheezes. No egophony. Cardiac Exam: S1, S2. Regular rate, controlled. No significant murmurs, rubs or gallops. PMI is nondisplaced. Abdomen is soft, nondistended, appears benign. Extremities without significant edema. Pulses grossly intact.DIAGNOSTIC STUDIES/LAB DATA: Initial ECG shows atrial flutter.IMPRESSION: Mr. A is a 50-year-old gentleman with a history of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation in the past, more recently is having breakthrough atrial flutter despite flecainide and we had performed a transesophageal echocardiogram-guided cardioversion for him in late 12/20/09, who now has another recurrence within the past 41 hours or so. I have reviewed again with him in detail regarding risks, benefits, and alternatives of proceeding with cardioversion, which the patient is in favor of. After in depth explanation of the procedure with him that there would be more definitive resumption of normal sinus rhythm by using electrocardioversion with less long-term side effects, past the acute procedure, alternatives being continued atrial flutter with potential for electrophysiologic consultation for ablation and/or heart rate control with anticoagulation, which the patient was not interested nor was I primarily recommending as the next step, and risks including, but not limited to and the patient was aware and this was all done in the presence of his wife that this is not an all-inclusive list, but the risks include but not limited to oversedation from conscious sedation, risk of aspiration pneumonia from regurgitation of stomach contents, which would be less likely as I did confirm with the patient that he had been n.p.o. for greater than 15 hours, risk of induction of other arrhythmias including tachyarrhythmias requiring further management including cardioversion or risk of bradyarrhythmias, in the past when we had a cardioverter with 150 joules, he did have a 5.5-second pause especially while he is on antiarrhythmic therapy, statistically less significant risk of CVA, although we cannot really make that null. The patient expressed understanding of this risk, benefit, and alternative analysis. I invited questions from him and his wife and once their questions were answered to their self-stated satisfaction, we planned to go forward with the procedure.PROCEDURE NOTE: The patient received a total of 7 mg of Versed and 50 micrograms of fentanyl utilizing titrate-down sedation with good effect and this was after the appropriate time-out procedure had been done as per the Medical Center universal protocol with appropriate identification of the patient, position, procedure documentation, procedure indication, and there were no questions. The patient did actively participate in this time-out procedure. After the universal protocol was done, he then received the cardioversion attempt with 50 joules using \"\"lollipop posterior patch\"\" with hands-driven paddle on the side, which was 50 joules of synchronized biphasic energy. There was successful resumption of normal sinus rhythm, in fact this time there was not a significant pause as compared to when he had this done previously in late 12/09 and this sinus rhythm was confirmed by a 12-lead EKG.IMPRESSION: Cardioversion shows successful resumption of normal sinus rhythm from atrial flutter and that is while the patient has been maintained on Coumadin and his INR is 3.22. We are going to watch him and discharge him from the Medical Center area on his current flecainide of 200 mg in the morning and 100 mg in the evening, atenolol 25 mg once a day, Coumadin _____ as currently being diagnosed. I had previously discussed with the patient and he was agreeable with meeting with his electrophysiologist again, Dr. X, at Electrophysiology Unit at General Hospital and I will be planning to place a call for Dr. X myself. Again, he has no ischemia on this most recent stress test and I suppose in the future it may be reasonable to get obstructive sleep apnea evaluation and that may be one issue promulgating his symptoms.I had previously discussed the case with Dr. Y who is the patient's general cardiologist as well as updated his wife at the patient's bedside regarding our findings."
"HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 71-year-old woman with history of coronary artery disease for which she has had coronary artery bypass grafting x2 and percutaneous coronary intervention with stenting x1. She also has a significant history of chronic renal insufficiency and severe COPD. The patient and her husband live in ABC but they have family in XYZ. She came to our office today as she is in the area visiting her family. She complains of having shortness of breath for the past month that has been increasingly getting worse. She developed a frequent nonproductive cough about 2 weeks ago. She has also had episodes of paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, awaking in the middle of the night, panicking from dyspnea and shortness of breath. She has also gained about 15 pounds in the past few months and has significant peripheral edema. In the office, she is obviously dyspnea and speaking in 2 to 3 word sentences.PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Coronary artery disease, anemia secondary to chronic renal insufficiency, stage IV chronic kidney disease, diabetic nephropathy, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, COPD, insulin-dependent diabetes, mild mitral valve regurgitation, severe tricuspid valve regurgitation, sick sinus syndrome, gastritis, and heparin-induced thrombocytopenia.PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Status post pacemaker implantation, status post CABG x4 in 1999 and status post CABG x2 in 2003, status post PCA stenting x1 to the left anterior descending artery, cholecystectomy, back surgery, bladder surgery, and colonic polypectomies.SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient is married. Lives with her husband. They are retired from ABC.MEDICATIONS:1. Plavix 75 mg p.o. daily.2. Aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily.3. Isosorbide mononitrate 60 mg p.o. daily.4. Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.5. Atenolol 50 mg p.o. daily.6. Lantus insulin 15 units subcutaneously every evening.7. Protonix 40 mg p.o. daily.8. Furosemide 40 mg p.o. daily.9. Norvasc 5 mg p.o. daily.ALLERGIES: SHE IS ALLERGIC TO HEPARIN AGENTS, WHICH CAUSE HEPARIN-INDUCED THROMBOCYTOPENIA.REVIEW OF SYSTEMSCONSTITUTIONAL: Positive for generalized fatigue and malaise.HEAD AND NECK: Negative for diplopia, blurred vision, visual disturbances, hearing loss, tinnitus, epistaxis, vertigo, sinusitis, and gum or oral lesions.CARDIOVASCULAR: Positive for epigastric discomfort x2 weeks, negative for palpitations, syncope or near-syncopal episodes, chest pressure, and chest pain.RESPIRATORY: Positive for dyspnea at rest, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, orthopnea, and frequent nonproductive cough. Negative for wheezing.ABDOMEN: Negative for abdominal pain, bloating, nausea, vomiting, constipation, melena, or hematemesis.GENITOURINARY: Negative for dysuria, polyuria, hematuria, or incontinence.MUSCULOSKELETAL: Negative for recent trauma, stiffness, deformities, muscular weakness, or atrophy.SKIN: Negative for rashes, petechiae, and hair or nail changes. Positive for easy bruising on forearms.NEUROLOGIC: Negative for paralysis, paresthesias, dysphagia, or dysarthria.PSYCHIATRIC: Negative for depression, anxiety, or mood swings.All other systems reviewed are negative.PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONVITAL SIGNS: Her blood pressure in the office was 188/94, heart rate 70, respiratory rate 18 to 20, and saturations 99% on room air. Her height is 63 inches. She is weighs 195 pounds and her BMI is 34.6.CONSTITUTIONAL: A 71-year-old woman in significant distress from shortness of breath and dyspnea at rest.HEENT: Eyes: Pupils are reactive. Sclera is nonicteric. Ears, nose, mouth, and throat.NECK: Supple. No lymphadenopathy. No thyromegaly. Swallow is intact.CARDIOVASCULAR: Positive JVD at 45 degrees. Heart tones are distant. S1 and S2. No murmurs.EXTREMITIES: Have 3+ edema in the feet and ankles bilaterally that extends up to her knees. Femoral pulses are weakly palpable. Posterior tibial pulses are not palpable. Capillary refill is somewhat sluggish.RESPIRATORY: Breath sounds are clear with some bilateral basilar diminishment. No rales and no wheezing. Speaking in 2 to 3 word sentences. Diaphragmatic excursions are limited. AP diameter is expanded.ABDOMEN: Soft and nontender. Active bowel sounds x4 quadrants. No hepatosplenomegaly. No masses are appreciated.GENITOURINARY: Deferred.MUSCULOSKELETAL: Adequate range of motion along with extremities.SKIN: Warm and dry. No lesions or ulcerations are noted.NEUROLOGIC: Alert and oriented x3. Head is normocephalic and atraumatic. No focal, motor, or sensory deficits.PSYCHIATRIC: Normal affect.IMPRESSION1. Coronary artery disease.2. Stage IV chronic renal insufficiency.3. Acute symptoms of congestive heart failure with 15 pound weight gain.4. Dyspnea on exertion and dyspnea at rest.5. Indigestion x2 weeks, which could be anginal equivalent.PLAN1. Routine labs to rule out acute myocardial infarction.2. Serial EKGs.3. Echocardiogram.4. Consider nuclear stress testing."
"CHIEF REASON FOR CONSULTATION: Evaluate recurrent episodes of uncomfortable feeling in the left upper arm at rest, as well as during exertion for the last one month.HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This 57-year-old black female complains of having pain and discomfort in the left upper arm, especially when she walks and after heavy meals. This lasts anywhere from a few hours and is not associated with shortness of breath, palpitations, dizziness, or syncope. Patient does not get any chest pain or choking in the neck or pain in the back. Patient denies history of hypertension, diabetes mellitus, enlarged heart, heart murmur, history suggestive of previous myocardial infarction, or acute rheumatic polyarthritis during childhood. Her exercise tolerance is one to two blocks for shortness of breath and easy fatigability.MEDICATIONS: Patient does not take any specific medications.PAST HISTORY: The patient underwent hysterectomy in 1986.FAMILY HISTORY: The patient is married, has four children who are doing fine. Family history is positive for hypertension, congestive heart failure, obesity, cancer, and cerebrovascular accident.SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient smokes one pack of cigarettes per day and takes drinks on social occasions. ALLERGIES: THE PATIENT IS ALLERGIC TO CODEINE.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Remarkable for heavy snoring, daytime sleepiness, and easy fatigability.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: GENERAL: Well-built, well-nourished black female in no acute distress. VITAL SIGNS: Blood pressure is 120/80. Respirations 18 per minute. Heart rate 70 beats per minute. Patient weighs 226 pounds, height 68 inches. BMI is 34.HEENT: Head normocephalic. Eyes, no evidence of anemia or jaundice. Oral hygiene is good.NECK: Supple. No cervical lymphadenopathy. Carotid upstroke is good. No bruit heard over the carotid or subclavian arteries. Trachea in midline. Thyroid not enlarged. JVP flat at 45ยฐ.CHEST: Chest is symmetrical on both sides, moves well with respirations. Vesicular breath sounds heard over the lung fields. No wheezing, crepitation, or pleural friction rub heard. CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM: PMI felt in fifth left intercostal space within midclavicular line. First and second heart sounds are normal in character. There is no murmur, gallop, or pericardial friction rub heard.ABDOMEN: Soft. There is no hepatosplenomegaly or ascites. No bruit heard over the aorta or renal vessels.EXTREMITIES: No pedal edema or calf muscle tenderness. Proximal and distal arterial pulsations are well felt.EKG shows normal sinus rhythm, negative T waves in leads 1, aVL, V4-V6.IMPRESSION: 1. Abnormal EKG showing diffuse anterior wall ischemia.2. Discomfort left upper arm highly suggestive of angina pectoris.3. Obesity.4. Obstructive sleep apnea syndrome.PLAN: 1. Stress Myoview SPECT, echocardiogram.2. Sleep apnea study.3. Routine blood tests.4. Patient will be seen again in my office in two weeks."
"CHIEF REASON FOR CONSULTATION: Evaluate exercise-induced chest pain, palpitations, dizzy spells, shortness of breath, and abnormal EKG.HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This 72-year-old female had a spell of palpitations that lasted for about five to ten minutes. During this time, patient felt extremely short of breath and dizzy. Palpitations lasted for about five to ten minutes without any recurrence. Patient also gives history of having tightness in the chest after she walks briskly up to a block. Chest tightness starts in the retrosternal area with radiation across the chest. Chest tightness does not radiate to the root of the neck or to the shoulder, lasts anywhere from five to ten minutes, and is relieved with rest. Patient gives history of having hypertension for the last two months. Patient denies having diabetes mellitus, history suggestive of previous myocardial infarction, or cerebrovascular accident.MEDICATIONS: 1. Astelin nasal spray.2. Evista 60 mg daily.3. Lopressor 25 mg daily.4. Patient was given a sample of Diovan 80 mg daily for the control of hypertension from my office.PAST HISTORY: The patient underwent right foot surgery and C-section.FAMILY HISTORY: The patient is married, has six children who are doing fine. Father died of a stroke many years ago. Mother had arthritis.SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient does not smoke or take any drinks. ALLERGIES: THE PATIENT IS NOT ALLERGIC TO ANY MEDICATIONS.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Otherwise negative. PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: GENERAL: Well-built, well-nourished white female in no acute distress. VITAL SIGNS: Blood pressure is 160/80. Respirations 18 per minute. Heart rate 70 beats per minute. Patient weighs 133 pounds, height 64 inches. BMI is 22.HEENT: Head normocephalic. Eyes, no evidence of anemia or jaundice. Oral hygiene is good.NECK: Supple. No cervical lymphadenopathy. Carotid upstroke is good. No bruit heard over the carotid or subclavian arteries. Trachea in midline. Thyroid not enlarged. JVP flat at 45ยฐ.CHEST: Chest is symmetrical on both sides, moves well with respirations. Vesicular breath sounds heard over the lung fields. No wheezing, crepitation, or pleural friction rub heard. CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM: PMI felt in fifth left intercostal space within midclavicular line. First and second heart sounds are normal in character. There is a II/VI systolic murmur best heard at the apex. There is no diastolic murmur or gallop heard.ABDOMEN: Soft. There is no hepatosplenomegaly or ascites. No bruit heard over the aorta or renal vessels.EXTREMITIES: No pedal edema. Femoral arterial pulsations are 3+, popliteal 2+. Dorsalis pedis and posterior tibialis are 1+ on both sides.NEURO: Normal.EKG from Dr. Xyz's office shows normal sinus rhythm, ST and T wave changes. Lipid profile, random blood sugar, BUN, creatinine, CBC, and LFTs are normal.IMPRESSION: 1. Exercise-induced chest pain.2. Palpitations with dizziness.3. Abnormal EKG.4. Hypertension.5. Heart murmur.PLAN: 1. Adenosine Myoview SPECT, 24-hour Holter monitor, echocardiogram.2. Carotid ultrasound.3. Micro-T wave alternans test.4. Diovan 80 mg has been given to the patient from our sample closet for the control of hypertension.5. Patient will be seen again in my office in two weeks."
"HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is known to me secondary to atrial fibrillation with slow ventricular response, partially due to medications, at least when I first saw him in the office on 01/11/06. He is now 77 years old. He is being seen on the Seventh Floor. The patient is in Room 7607. The patient has a history of recent adenocarcinoma of the duodenum that was found to be inoperable, since it engulfed the porta hepatis. The workup began with GI bleeding. He was seen in my office on 01/11/06 for preop evaluation due to leg edema. A nonocclusive DVT was diagnosed in the proximal left superficial femoral vein. Both legs were edematous, and bilateral venous insufficiency was also present. An echocardiogram demonstrated an ejection fraction of 50%. The patient was admitted to the hospital and treated with a Greenfield filter since anticoagulant was contraindicated. Additional information on the echocardiogram, where a grossly dilated left atrium, moderately severely dilated right atrium. The rhythm was, as stated before, atrial fibrillation with slow atrioventricular conduction and an intraventricular conduction delay on the monitor strip. There was mild to moderate tricuspid regurgitation, mild pulmonic insufficiency. The ejection fraction was considered low normal, since it was estimated 50 to 54%. The patient received blood while in the hospital due to anemia. The leg edema improved while lying down, suggesting that the significant element of venous insufficiency was indeed present. The patient, who was diabetic, received consultation by Dr. R. He was also a chronic hypertensive and was treated for that with ACE inhibitors. The atrial fibrillation was slow, and no digitalis or beta blockers were recommended at the same time. As a matter of fact, they were discontinued. Now, the patient denied any shortness of breath or chest pain throughout this hospitalization, and cardiac nuclear studies performed earlier demonstrated no reversible ischemia.ALLERGIES: THE PATIENT HAS NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES.His diabetes was suspected to be complicated with neuropathy due to tingling in both feet. He received his immunizations with flu in 2005 but did not receive Pneumovax.SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient is married. He had 1 child who died at the age of 26 months of unknown etiology. He quit smoking 6 years ago but dips (smokeless) tobacco.FAMILY HISTORY: Mother had cancer, died at 70. Father died of unknown cause, and brother died of unknown cause.FUNCTIONAL CAPACITY: The patient is wheelchair bound at the time of his initial hospitalization. He is currently walking in the corridor with assistance. Nocturia twice to 3 times per night.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:OPHTHALMOLOGIC: Uses glasses.ENT: Complains of occasional sinusitis.CARDIOVASCULAR: Hypertension and atrial fibrillation.RESPIRATORY: Normal.GI: Colon bleeding. The patient believes he had ulcers.GENITOURINARY: Normal.MUSCULOSKELETAL: Complains of arthritis and gout.INTEGUMENTARY: Edema of ankles and joints.NEUROLOGICAL: Tingling as per above. Denies any psychiatric problems.ENDOCRINE: Diabetes, NIDDM.HEMATOLOGIC AND LYMPHATIC: The patient does not use any aspirin or anticoagulants and is not of anemia.LABORATORY: Current EKG demonstrates atrial fibrillation with incomplete left bundle branch block pattern. Q waves are noticed in the inferior leads. Nonprogression of the R-wave from V1 to V4 with small R-waves in V5 and V6 are suggestive of an old anterior and inferior infarcts. Left ventilator hypertrophy and strain is suspected.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:GENERAL: On exam, the patient is alert, oriented and cooperative. He is mildly pale. He is an elderly gentleman who is currently without diaphoresis, pallor, jaundice, plethora, or icterus.VITAL SIGNS: Blood pressure is 159/69 with a respiratory rate of 20, pulse is 67 and irregularly irregular. Pulse oximetry is 100.NECK: Without JVD, bruit, or thyromegaly. The neck is supple.CHEST: Symmetric. There is no heave or retraction.HEART: The heart sounds are irregular and no significant murmurs could be auscultated.LUNGS: Clear to auscultation.ABDOMEN: Exam was deferred.LEGS: Without edema. Pulses: Dorsalis pedis pulse was palpated bilaterally.MEDICATIONS: Current medications include enalapril, low dose enoxaparin, Fentanyl patches. He is no longer on fluconazole. He is on a sliding scale as per Dr. Holden. He is on lansoprazole (Prevacid), Toradol, piperacillin/tazobactam, hydralazine p.r.n., Zofran, Dilaudid, Benadryl, and Lopressor p.r.n.ASSESSMENT AND PLAN: The patient is a very pleasant elderly gentleman with intractable/inoperable malignancy. His cardiac issues are chronic and most likely secondary to long term hypertension and diabetes. He has chronic atrial fibrillation. I do not envision a scenario whereby he will become a candidate for management of this arrhythmia beyond weight control. He is also not a candidate for anticoagulation, which is, in essence, a part and parcel of the weight control. Reason being is high likelihood for GI bleeding, especially given the diagnosis of invasive malignancy with involvement of multiple organs and lymph nodes. At this point, I agree with the notion of hospice care. If his atrioventricular conduction becomes excessive, occasional nondihydropyridine calcium channel blocker such as diltiazem or beta blockers would be appropriate; otherwise, I would keep him off those medications due to evidence of slow conduction in the presence of digitalis and beta blockers."
"REASON FOR CONSULTATION: Cardiac evaluation.HISTORY: This is a 42-year old Caucasian male with no previous history of hypertension, diabetes mellitus, rheumatic fever, rheumatic heart disease, or gout. Patient used to take medicine for hyperlipidemia and then that was stopped. He used to live in Canada and he moved to Houston four months ago. He started complaining of right-sided upper chest pain, starts at the right neck and goes down to the right side. It lasts around 10-15 minutes at times. It is 5/10 in quality. It is not associated with shortness of breath, nausea, vomiting, or sweating. It is not also associated with food. He denies exertional chest pain, dyspnea on exertion, orthopnea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, or pedal edema. No palpitations, syncope or presyncope. He said he has been having little cough at night and he went to see an allergy doctor who prescribed several medications for him and told him that he has asthma. No fever, chills, cough, hemoptysis, hematemesis or hematochezia. His EKG shows normal sinus rhythm, normal EKG.PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Unremarkable, except for hyperlipidemia.SOCIAL HISTORY: He said he quit smoking 20 years ago and does not drink alcohol.FAMILY HISTORY: Positive for high blood pressure and heart disease. His father died in his 50s with an acute myocardial infarction.MEDICATION: Ranitidine 300 mg daily, Flonase 50 mcg nasal spray as needed, Allegra 100 mg daily, Advair 500/50 bid.ALLERGIES: No known allergies.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: As mentioned aboveEXAMINATION: This is a 42-year old male awake, alert, and oriented x3 in no acute distress.Wt: 238 BP: 144/82 HR: 69HEENT: Normocephalic and atraumatic.NECK: Supple, no jugular venous distension.LUNGS: Good breath sounds bilaterally.HEART: Regular rate and rhythm, S1 and S2, no murmurs, rubs, or gallops.ABDOMEN: Soft, no organomegalies, bowel sounds positive.EXTREMITIES: No clubbing, edema, or cyanosis.IMPRESSION:1. Right-sided chest pain, rule out coronary artery disease, rule out C-spine radiculopathy, rule out gallbladder disease.2. Borderline elevated high blood pressure.3. History of hyperlipidemia.4. Obesity.PLAN: Will schedule patient for heart catheterization. Will see him after the above is completed."
"REASON FOR REFERRAL: Cardiac evaluation and treatment in a patient who came in the hospital with abdominal pain.HISTORY: This is a 77-year-old white female patient whom I have known for the last about a year or so who has underlying multiple medical problems including hypertension, hyperlipidemia, diabetes mellitus, coronary artery disease status post aortocoronary bypass surgery about eight years ago at Halifax Medical Center where she had triple vessel bypass surgery with left internal mammary artery to the left anterior descending artery, saphenous vein graft to the left circumflex and right coronary arteries. Since then, she has generally done well. She used to be seeing another cardiologist and apparently she had a stress test in September 2008 and she was otherwise cardiac catheterization and coronary angiography, but the patient declined to have one done and since then she has been on medical therapy.The patient had been on medical therapy at home and generally doing well. Recently, she had no leg swelling, undue exertional dyspnea, orthopnea, or paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea. She denies any rest or exertional chest discomfort. Yesterday evening, she had her dinner and she was sitting around and she felt discomfort in the chest at about 7:00 p.m. The discomfort was a crampy pain in the left lower quadrant area, which seemed to radiating to the center of the abdomen and to the right side and it was off and on lasting for a few minutes at a time and then subsiding. Later on she was nauseous, but she did not have any vomiting. She denied any diarrhea. No history of fever or chills. Since the pain seemed to persist, the patient came to the hospital emergency room at 11:35 p.m. where she was seen and admitted for the same. She was given morphine, Zofran, Demerol, another Zofran, and Reglan as well as Demerol again and she was given intravenous fluids. Subsequently, her pain finally went away and she does not have any pain since about 7:00 a.m. this morning. The patient was admitted however for further workup and treatment. At the time of my examination this afternoon, the patient is sitting, lying in bed and comfortable and has no abdominal pain of any kind. She has not been fed any food, however. The patient also had had pelvis and abdominal CT scan performed, which has been described to be partial small bowel obstruction, internal hernia, volvulus or adhesion most likely in the left flank area. The patient has had left nephrectomy and splenectomy, which has been described. A 1.5-mm solid mass is described to be in the lower pole of the kidney. The patient also has been described to have diverticulosis without diverticulitis on this finding.Currently however, the patient has no clinical symptoms according to her.PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: She has had hypertension and hyperlipidemia for the last 15 years, diabetes mellitus for the last eight years, and coronary artery disease for last about eight years or so. She had a chest and back pain about eight years ago for about two weeks and then subsequently she was reported to be evaluated. She has a small myocardial infarction and then she was under the care of Dr. A and she had aortocoronary bypass surgery at Halifax Medical Center by Dr. B, which was a three-vessel bypass surgery with left internal mammary artery to the left descending artery and saphenous vein graft to the left circumflex and distal right coronary artery respectively.She had had nuclear stress test with Dr. C on September 3, 2008, which was described to be abnormal with ischemic defects, but I do not think the patient had any further cardiac catheterization and coronary angiography after that. She has been treated medically.This patient also had an admission to this hospital in May 2008 also for partial small bowel obstruction and cholelithiasis and sigmoid diverticulosis. She was described to have had a hemorrhagic cyst of the right kidney. She has mild arthritis for the last 10 or 15 years. She has a history of GERD for the last 20 years, and she also has a history of peptic ulcer disease in the duodenum, but never had any bleeding. She has a history of diverticulosis as mentioned. No history of TIA or CVA. She has one kidney. She was in a car accident in 1978 and afterwards she had to have left nephrectomy as well as splenectomy because of rupture. The patient has a history of pulmonary embolism once about eight years ago after her aortocoronary bypass surgery. She describes this to be a clot on left lung. I am not sure if she had any long-term treatment, however.In the past, the patient had aortocoronary bypass surgery in 2003 and incisional hernia surgery in 1979 as well as hysterectomy in 1979 and she had splenectomy and nephrectomy as described in 1978.FAMILY HISTORY: Her father died at age of 65 of massive heart attack and mother died at age of 62 of cancer. She had a one brother who died of massive heart attack in his 50s, a brother died at the age of 47 of cancer, and another brother died in his 60s of possible rupture of appendix.SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient is a widow. She lives alone. She does have three daughters, two of them live in Georgia and one lives in Tennessee. She did smoke in the past up to one to one and a half packs of cigarettes per day for about 10 years, but she quit long time ago. She never drank any alcohol. She likes to drink one or two cups of tea in a day.ALLERGIES: PAXIL.MEDICATIONS: Her home medications prior to coming in include some of the following medications, although the exact list is not available in the chart at this stage, but they have been on glyburide, Januvia, lisinopril, metformin, metoprolol, simvastatin, ranitidine, meloxicam, and furosemide.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Appetite is good. She sleeps good at night. She has no headaches and she has mild joint pains from arthritis.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:VITAL SIGNS: Pulse 90 per minute and regular, blood pressure 140/90 mmHg, respirations 18, and temperature of 98.5 degree Fahrenheit. Moderate obesity is present.CARDIAC: Carotid upstroke is slightly diminished, but no clear bruit heard.LUNGS: Slightly decreased air entry at both bases. No rales or rhonchi heard.CARDIOVASCULAR: PMI in the left fifth intercostal space in the midclavicular line. Regular heart rhythm. S1 and S2 normal. S4 is present. No S3 heard. Short ejection systolic murmur grade I/VI is present at the left lower sternal border of the apex, peaking in LV systole, no diastolic murmur heard.ABDOMEN: Soft, obese, no tenderness, no masses felt. Bowel sounds are present.EXTREMITIES: Bilateral trace edema. The extremities are heavy. There is no pitting at this stage. No clubbing or cyanosis. Distal pulses are fair.CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM: Without any obvious focal deficits.LABORATORY DATA: Includes an electrocardiogram, which shows normal sinus rhythm, left atrial enlargement, and right bundle branch block. This is overall unchanged compared to previous electrocardiogram, which also has the same present. Nuclear stress test from 2008 was described to show ejection fraction of 49% and inferior and posterolateral ischemia. Otherwise, laboratory data includes on this patient at this stage WBC 18.3, hemoglobin 15.5, hematocrit is 47.1, and platelet count is 326,000. Electrolytes, sodium 137, potassium 5.2, chloride 101, CO2 27, BUN 34, creatinine 1.2, calcium 9.5, and magnesium 1.7. AST and ALT are normal. Albumin is 4.1. Lipase and amylase are normal. INR is 0.92. Urinalysis is relatively unremarkable except for trace protein. Chest x-ray has been described to show elevated left hemidiaphragm and median sternotomy sutures. No infiltrates seen. Abdomen and pelvis CAT scan findings are as described before with suggestion of partial small bowel obstruction and internal hernia. Volvulus or adhesions have been considered. Left nephrectomy and splenectomy demonstrated right kidney has a 1.5 cm solid mass at the lower pole suspicious for neoplasm according to the radiologist's description and there is diverticulosis.IMPRESSION:1. Coronary artery disease and prior aortocoronary bypass surgery, currently clinically the patient without any angina.2. Possible small old myocardial infarction.3. Hypertension with hypertensive cardiovascular disease.4. Non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.5. Moderate obesity.6. Hyperlipidemia.7. Chronic non-pitting leg edema.8. Arthritis.9. GERD and positive history of peptic ulcer disease.CONCLUSION:1. Past left nephrectomy and splenectomy after an accident and injury and rupture of the spleen.2. Abnormal nuclear stress test in September 2008, but no further cardiac studies performed, such as cardiac catheterization.3. Lower left quadrant pain, which could be due to diverticulosis.4. Diverticulosis and partial bowel obstruction.RECOMMENDATION:1. At this stage, the patient's cardiac medication should be continued if the patient is allowed p.o. intake.2. The patient should have gastroenterology and surgical consultation evaluation.3. The patient can have an echocardiogram performed with cardiac function at this stage. The patient will be in a mild-to-moderate cardiovascular risk should she need any surgery and anesthesia due to all her above comorbid problems as mentioned.4. Dr. C will follow this patient in my absence over the next 3-4 days.5. Additional recommendations will follow if needed."
"INDICATIONS: Preoperative cardiac evaluation in the patient with chest pain in the setting of left hip fracture.HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 78-year-old white female with no prior cardiac history. She sustained a mechanical fall with a subsequent left femoral neck fracture. She was transferred to XYZ Hospital for definitive care. In the emergency department of XYZ, the patient described six to seven seconds of sharp chest pain without radiation, without associated symptoms. Electrocardiogram was obtained, which showed nonspecific ST-segment flattening in the high lateral leads I, aVL. She also had a left axis deviation. Serial troponins were obtained. She has had four negative troponins since admission. Due to age and chest pain history, a cardiology consultation was requested preoperatively.At the time of my evaluation, the patient complained of left hip pain, but no chest pain, dyspnea, or symptomatic dysrhythmia.PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:1. Mesothelioma.2. Recurrent urinary tract infections.3. Gastroesophageal reflux disease/gastritis.4. Osteopenia.5. Right sciatica.6. Hypothyroidism.7. Peripheral neuropathy.8. Fibromyalgia.9. Chart review also suggests she has atherosclerotic heart disease and pneumothorax. The patient denies either of these.PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:1. Tonsillectomy.2. Hysterectomy.3. Appendectomy.4. Thyroidectomy.5. Coccygectomy.6. Cystoscopies times several.7. Bladder neck resuspension.8. Multiple breast biopsies.ALLERGIES: NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES.MEDICATIONS: At the time of evaluation include, 1. Cefazolin 1 g intravenous (IV). 2. Morphine sulfate. 3. Ondansetron p.r.n.OUTPATIENT MEDICATIONS: 1. Robaxin. 2. Detrol 4 mg q.h.s. 3. Neurontin 300 mg p.o. t.i.d. 4. Armour Thyroid 90 mg p.o. daily. 5. Temazepam, dose unknown p.r.n. 6. Chloral hydrate, dose unknown p.r.n.FAMILY HISTORY: Mother had myocardial infarction in her 40s, died of heart disease in her 60s, specifics not known. She knows nothing of her father's history. She has no siblings. There is no other history of premature atherosclerotic heart disease in the family.SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient is married, lives with her husband. She is a lifetime nonsmoker, nondrinker. She has not been getting regular exercise for approximately two years due to chronic sciatic pain.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: GENERAL: The patient is able to walk one block or less prior to the onset of significant leg pain. She ever denies any cardiac symptoms with this degree of exertion. She denies any dyspnea on exertion or chest pain with activities of daily living. She does sleep on two to three pillows, but denies orthopnea or paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea. She does have chronic lower extremity edema. Her husband states that she has had prior chest pain in the past, but this has always been attributed to gastritis. She denies any palpitations or tachycardia. She has remote history of presyncope, no true syncope.HEMATOLOGIC: Negative for bleeding diathesis or coagulopathy.ONCOLOGIC: Remarkable for past medical history.PULMONARY: Remarkable for childhood pneumonia times several. No recurrent pneumonias, bronchitis, reactive airway disease as an adult.GASTROINTESTINAL: Remarkable for past medical history.GENITOURINARY: Remarkable for past medical history.MUSCULOSKELETAL: Remarkable for past medical history.CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM: Negative for tic, tremor, transient ischemic attack (TIA), seizure, or stroke.PSYCHIATRIC: Remarkable for history of depression as an adolescent, she was hospitalized at State Mental Institution as a young woman. No recurrence.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:GENERAL: This is a well-nourished, well-groomed elderly white female who is appropriate and articulate at the time of evaluation.VITAL SIGNS: She has had a low-grade temperature of 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit on 11/20/2006, currently 99.6. Pulse ranges from 123 to 86 beats per minute. Blood pressure ranges from 124/65 to 152/67 mmHg. Oxygen saturation on 2 L nasal cannula was 94%.HEENT: Exam is benign. Normocephalic and atraumatic. Extraocular motions are intact. Sclerae anicteric. Conjunctivae noninjected. She does have bilateral arcus senilis. Oral mucosa is pink and moist.NECK: Jugular venous pulsations are normal. Carotid upstrokes are palpable bilaterally. There is no audible bruit. There is no lymphadenopathy or thyromegaly at the base of the neck. There is a well-healed scar at the base of the neck. Cardiothoracic contour is normal.LUNGS: Limited to anterior auscultation only, which was clear.CARDIAC: Regular rhythm and rate. S1 and S2 with no significant murmur, rub, or gallop appreciated. The point of maximal impulse is normal. There is no right ventricular heave.ABDOMEN: Soft with active bowel sounds. No organomegaly. No audible bruit. Nontender.EXTREMITIES: Femoral pulses were deferred. Lower extremities revealed trace to 1+edema at the level of ankles bilaterally.DIAGNOSTIC DATA: EKG: Electrocardiogram on 11/20/2006 at 1539 showed sinus rhythm with left axis deviation, borderline first-degree atrioventricular (AV) block, sinus arrhythmia. Nonspecific ST-segment flattening seen predominantly in aVL, but to a lesser extent in lead I. Early R-wave progression also noted. No evidence for resting ischemia or prior infarction. Repeat electrocardiogram on 11/21/2006 at 0037 essentially unchanged with regard to ST segments except there is perhaps slightly more flattening in lead I. P-wave morphology is slightly different than that noted on prior tracing consistent with ectopic atrial rhythm. Repeat electrocardiogram on 11/21/2006 at 1713 shows persistence of ST segment flattening in lead I, aVL. Persistence of early R-wave progression and left axis deviation. Rhythm does appear to be sinus on current tracing.LABORATORY DATA: White blood cell count 4.7 on admission, hematocrit currently 33.2 with platelet count of 243 on admission. INR 1.0 with PTT of 20. Sodium 144 with potassium 3.6, chloride 107, CO2 25, BUN 10 with creatinine of 1.1. Albumin depressed at 3.3. AST and ALT normal at 19 and 24 respectively, lipase normal at 45. Troponins are negative x4 over the course of 14 hours. Urinalysis is suggestive of urinary tract infection (UTI) with no blood, positive nitrates, positive leuk esterase, 5 to 10 white blood cells, and many bacteria with no epithelial cells.IMPRESSION: Elderly white female status post traumatic left hip fracture with atypical chest pain and baseline ST-segment abnormalities nondiagnostic.RECOMMENDATIONS:1. Cardiac clearance: The patient with cardiac risk factors including age and family. Not smoking, hypertensive, dyslipidemic. Does have a sedentary lifestyle, but it is not morbidly obese. Given the atypical nature of her chest pain and the nondiagnostic EKG changes, I feel it is safe to proceed with orthopedic procedure without further cardiac evaluation. We would, however, treat with preoperative beta-blockers.2. We will follow the patient perioperatively with electrocardiogram and troponin.3. We would recommend treatment for presumed urinary tract infection.FOLLOWUP: The patient will be followed in-house by members of Cardiology Associates and recommendations made as clinically appropriate."
"HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 41-year-old African-American male previously well known to me. He has a previous history of aortic valve disease, status post aortic valve replacement on 10/15/2007, for which he has been on chronic anticoagulation. There is a previous history of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation and congestive heart failure, both of which have been stable prior to this admission. He has a previous history of transient ischemic attack with no residual neurologic deficits.The patient has undergone surgery by Dr. X for attempted nephrolithotomy. The patient has experienced significant postoperative bleeding, for which it has been necessary to discontinue all anticoagulation. The patient is presently seen at the request of Dr. X for management of anticoagulation and his above heart disease.PAST MEDICAL AND SURGICAL HISTORY:1. Type I diabetes mellitus.2. Hyperlipidemia.3. Hypertension.4. Morbid obesity.5. Sleep apnea syndrome.6. Status post thyroidectomy for thyroid carcinoma.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:General: Unremarkable.Cardiopulmonary: No chest pain, shortness of breath, palpitations, or dizziness.Gastrointestinal: Unremarkable.Genitourinary: See above.Musculoskeletal: Unremarkable.Neurologic: Unremarkable.FAMILY HISTORY: There are no family members with coronary artery disease. His mother has congestive heart failure.SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient is married. He lives with his wife. He is employed as a barber. He does not use alcohol, tobacco, or illicit drugs.MEDICATIONS PRIOR TO ADMISSION:1. Clonidine 0.3 mg b.i.d.2. Atenolol 50 mg daily.3. Simvastatin 80 mg daily.4. Furosemide 40 mg daily.5. Metformin 1000 mg b.i.d.6. Hydralazine 25 mg t.i.d.7. Diovan 320 mg daily.8. Lisinopril 40 mg daily.9. Amlodipine 10 mg daily.10. Lantus insulin 50 units q.p.m.11. KCl 20 mEq daily.12. NovoLog sliding scale insulin coverage.13. Warfarin 7.5 mg daily.14. Levothyroxine 0.2 mg daily.15. Folic acid 1 mg daily.ALLERGIES: None.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:General: A well-appearing, obese black male.Vital Signs: BP 140/80, HR 88, respirations 16, and afebrile.HEENT: Grossly normal.Neck: Normal. Thyroid, normal. Carotid, normal upstroke, no bruits.Chest: Midline sternotomy scar.Lungs: Clear.Heart: PMI fifth intercostal space mid clavicular line. Normal S1 and prosthetic S2. No murmur, rub, gallop, or click.Abdomen: Soft and nontender. No palpable mass or hepatosplenomegaly.Extremities: Normal. No edema. Pulses bilaterally intact, carotid, radial, femoral, and dorsalis pedis.Neurologic: Mental status, no gross cranial nerve, motor, or sensory deficits.ELECTROCARDIOGRAM: Normal sinus rhythm. Right bundle-branch block. Findings compatible with old anteroseptal and lateral wall myocardial infarction._______ nonspecific ST-T abnormality.IMPRESSION:1. Status post nephrolithotomy with postoperative hematuria.2. Aortic valve disease, status post aortic valve replacement on 10/15/2007.3. Congestive heart failure, diastolic, chronic, stable, NYSHA class I to II.4. Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.5. Status post remote transient ischemic attack with no residual neurologic deficits.6. Type I diabetes mellitus.7. Hyperlipidemia.8. Hypertension.9. Morbid obesity.10. Sleep apnea syndrome.11. Chronic therapeutic anticoagulation.RECOMMENDATIONS: Until resolution of the hematuria, I agree with the necessity of discontinuation of all anticoagulation. There is obvious risk both due to prosthetic aortic valve and paroxysmal atrial fibrillation with continuation of anticoagulation; however, the risk of uncontrolled bleeding is essentially worse.Continue other medications."
"INDICATION FOR STUDY: Chest pains, CAD, and cardiomyopathy.MEDICATIONS: Humulin, lisinopril, furosemide, spironolactone, omeprazole, carvedilol, pravastatin, aspirin, hydrocodone, and diazepam.BASELINE EKG: Sinus rhythm at 71 beats per minute, left anterior fascicular block, LVBB.PERSANTINE RESULTS: Heart rate increased from 70 to 72. Blood pressure decreased from 160/84 to 130/78. The patient felt slightly dizziness, but there was no chest pain or EKG changes.NUCLEAR PROTOCOL: Same day rest/stress protocol was utilized with 12 mCi for the rest dose and 33 mCi for the stress test. 53 mg of Persantine were used, reversed with 125 mg of aminophylline.NUCLEAR RESULTS:1. Nuclear perfusion imaging, review of the raw projection data reveals adequate image acquisition. The resting images are normal. The post Persantine images show mildly decreased uptake in the septum. The sum score is 0.2. The Gated SPECT shows enlarged heart with a preserved EF of 52%.IMPRESSION:1. Mild septal ischemia. Likely due to the left bundle-branch block.2. Mild cardiomyopathy, EF of 52%.3. Mild hypertension at 160/84.4. Left bundle-branch block."
"REASON FOR TRANSFER: Need for cardiac catheterization done at ABCD.TRANSFER DIAGNOSES:1. Coronary artery disease.2. Chest pain.3. History of diabetes.4. History of hypertension.5. History of obesity.6. A 1.1 cm lesion in the medial aspect of the right parietal lobe.7. Deconditioning.CONSULTATIONS: Cardiology.PROCEDURES:1. Echocardiogram.2. MRI of the brain.3. Lower extremity Duplex ultrasound.HOSPITAL COURSE: Please refer to my H&P for full details. In brief, the patient is a 64-year-old male with history of diabetes, who presented with 6 hours of chest pressure. He was brought in by a friend. The friend states that the patient deteriorated over the last few weeks to the point that he is very short of breath with exertion. He apparently underwent a cardiac workup 6 months ago that the patient states he barely passed. His vital signs were stable on admission. He was ruled out for myocardial infarction with troponin x2. An echocardiogram showed concentric LVH with an EF of 62%. I had Cardiology come to see the patient, who reviewed the records from Fountain Valley. Based on his stress test in the past, Dr. X felt the patient needed to undergo a cardiac cath during his inpatient stay.The patient on initial presentation complained of, what sounded like, amaurosis fugax. I performed an MRI, which showed a 1 cm lesion in the right parietal lobe. I was going to call Neurology at XYZ for evaluation. However, secondary to his indication for transfer, this could be followed up at ABCD with Dr. Y.The patient is now stable for transfer for cardiac cath.Discharged to ABCD.DISCHARGE CONDITION: Stable.DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:1. Aspirin 325 mg p.o. daily.2. Lovenox 40 mg p.o. daily.3. Regular Insulin sliding scale.4. Novolin 70/30, 15 units b.i.d.5. Metformin 500 mg p.o. daily.6. Protonix 40 mg p.o. daily.DISCHARGE FOLLOWUP: Followup to be arranged at ABCD after cardiac cath."
"ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS:1. Respiratory arrest.2 . End-stage chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.3. Coronary artery disease.4. History of hypertension.DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:1. Status post-respiratory arrest.2. Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.3. Congestive heart failure.4. History of coronary artery disease.5. History of hypertension.SUMMARY: The patient is a 49-year-old man who was admitted to the hospital in respiratory distress, and had to be intubated shortly after admission to the emergency room. The patient๏ฟฝs past history is notable for a history of coronary artery disease with prior myocardial infarctions in 1995 and 1999. The patient has recently been admitted to the hospital with pneumonia and respiratory failure. The patient has been smoking up until three to four months previously. On the day of admission, the patient had the sudden onset of severe dyspnea and called an ambulance. The patient denied any gradual increase in wheezing, any increase in cough, any increase in chest pain, any increase in sputum prior to the onset of his sudden dyspnea.ADMISSION PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:GENERAL: Showed a well-developed, slightly obese man who was in extremis.NECK: Supple, with no jugular venous distension.HEART: Showed tachycardia without murmurs or gallops.PULMONARY: Status showed decreased breath sounds, but no clear-cut rales or wheezes.EXTREMITIES: Free of edema.HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted to the Special Care Unit and intubated. He received intravenous antibiotic therapy with Levaquin. He received intravenous diuretic therapy. He received hand-held bronchodilator therapy. The patient also was given intravenous steroid therapy with Solu-Medrol. The patientยs course was one of gradual improvement, and after approximately three days, the patient was extubated. He continued to be quite dyspneic, with wheezes as well as basilar rales. After pulmonary consultation was obtained, the pulmonary consultant felt that the patientยs overall clinical picture suggested that he had asignificant element of congestive heart failure. With this, the patient was placed on increased doses of Lisinopril and Digoxin, with improvement of his respiratory status. On the day of discharge, the patient had minimal basilar rales; his chest also showed minimal expiratory wheezes; he had no edema; his heart rate was regular; his abdomen was soft; and his neck veins were not distended. It was, therefore, felt that the patient was stable for further management on an outpatient basis.DIAGNOSTIC DATA: The patientยs admission laboratory data was notable for his initial blood gas, which showed a pH of 7.02 with a pCO2 of 118 and a pO2 of 103. The patientยs electrocardiogram showed nonspecific ST-T wave changes. The patentยs CBC showed a white count of 24,000, with 56% neutrophils and 3% bands.DISPOSITION: The patient was discharged home.DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS: His diet was to be a 2 grams sodium, 1800 calorie ADA diet. His medications were to be Prednisone 20 mg twice per day, Theo-24 400 mg per day, Furosemide 40 mg 1-1/2 tabs p.o. per day; Acetazolamide 250 mg one p.o. per day, Lisinopril 20 mg. one p.o. twice per day, Digoxin 0.125 mg one p.o. q.d., nitroglycerin paste 1 inch h.s., K-Dur 60 mEq p.o. b.i.d. He was also to use a Ventolin inhaler every four hours as needed, and Azmacort four puffs twice per day. He was asked to return for follow-up with Dr. X in one to two weeks. Arrangements have been made for the patient to have an echocardiogram for further evaluation of his congestive heart failure later on the day of discharge."
"CARDIOLITE TREADMILL EXERCISE STRESS TESTCLINICAL DATA: This is a 72-year-old female with history of diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and right bundle branch block.PROCEDURE: The patient was exercised on the treadmill to maximum tolerance achieving after 5 minutes a peak heart rate of 137 beats per minute with a workload of 2.3 METS. There was a normal blood pressure response. The patient did not complain of any symptoms during the test and other than the right bundle branch block that was present at rest, no other significant electrographic abnormalities were observed.Myocardial perfusion imaging was performed at rest following the injection of 10 mCi Tc-99 Cardiolite. At peak pharmacological effect, the patient was injected with 30 mCi Tc-99 Cardiolite.Gating poststress tomographic imaging was performed 30 minutes after the stress.FINDINGS:1. The overall quality of the study is fair.2. The left ventricular cavity appears to be normal on the rest and stress studies.3. SPECT images demonstrate fairly homogeneous tracer distribution throughout the myocardium with no overt evidences of fixed and/or reperfusion defect.4. The left ventricular ejection fraction was normal and estimated to be 78%.IMPRESSION: Myocardial perfusion imaging is normal. Result of this test suggests low probability for significant coronary artery disease."
"Dear Dr. CD:Please accept this letter of follow up on patient xxx xxx. He is now three months out from a left carotid angioplasty and stent placement. He was a part of a CapSure trial. He has done quite well, with no neurologic or cardiac event in the three months of follow up. He had a follow-up ultrasound performed today that shows the stent to be patent, with no evidence of significant recurrence.Sincerely,XYZ, MD"
"HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This 66-year-old white male was seen in my office on Month DD, YYYY. Patient was recently discharged from Doctors Hospital at Parkway after he was treated for pneumonia. Patient continues to have severe orthopnea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, cough with greenish expectoration. His exercise tolerance is about two to three yards for shortness of breath. The patient stopped taking Coumadin for reasons not very clear to him. He was documented to have recent atrial fibrillation. Patient has longstanding history of ischemic heart disease, end-stage LV systolic dysfunction, and is status post ICD implantation. Fasting blood sugar this morning is 130.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: VITAL SIGNS: Blood pressure is 120/60. Respirations 18 per minute. Heart rate 75-85 beats per minute, irregular. Weight 207 pounds.HEENT: Head normocephalic. Eyes, no evidence of anemia or jaundice. Oral hygiene is good. NECK: Supple. JVP is flat. Carotid upstroke is good. LUNGS: Severe inspiratory and expiratory wheezing heard throughout the lung fields. Fine crepitations heard at the base of the lungs on both sides. CARDIOVASCULAR: PMI felt in fifth left intercostal space 0.5-inch lateral to midclavicular line. First and second heart sounds are normal in character. There is a II/VI systolic murmur best heard at the apex.ABDOMEN: Soft. There is no hepatosplenomegaly.EXTREMITIES: Patient has 1+ pedal edema.MEDICATIONS: 1. Ambien 10 mg at bedtime p.r.n.2. Coumadin 7.5 mg daily.3. Diovan 320 mg daily.4. Lantus insulin 50 units in the morning.5. Lasix 80 mg daily.6. Novolin R p.r.n.7. Toprol XL 100 mg daily.8. Flovent 100 mcg twice a day.DIAGNOSES:1. Atherosclerotic coronary vascular disease with old myocardial infarction.2. Moderate to severe LV systolic dysfunction.3. Diabetes mellitus.4. Diabetic nephropathy and renal failure.5. Status post ICD implantation.6. New onset of atrial fibrillation.7. Chronic Coumadin therapy.PLAN:1. Continue present therapy.2. Patient will be seen again in my office in four weeks."
"HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This 57-year-old black female was seen in my office on Month DD, YYYY for further evaluation and management of hypertension. Patient has severe backache secondary to disc herniation. Patient has seen an orthopedic doctor and is scheduled for surgery. Patient also came to my office for surgical clearance. Patient had cardiac cath approximately four years ago, which was essentially normal. Patient is documented to have morbid obesity and obstructive sleep apnea syndrome. Patient does not use a CPAP mask. Her exercise tolerance is eight to ten feet for shortness of breath. Patient also has two-pillow orthopnea. She has intermittent pedal edema.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: VITAL SIGNS: Blood pressure is 135/70. Respirations 18 per minute. Heart rate 70 beats per minute. Weight 258 pounds.HEENT: Head normocephalic. Eyes, no evidence of anemia or jaundice. Oral hygiene is good. NECK: Supple. JVP is flat. Carotid upstroke is good. LUNGS: Clear. CARDIOVASCULAR: There is no murmur or gallop heard over the precordium. ABDOMEN: Soft. There is no hepatosplenomegaly. EXTREMITIES: The patient has no pedal edema. MEDICATIONS: 1. BuSpar 50 mg daily.2. Diovan 320/12.5 daily.3. Lotrel 10/20 daily.4. Zetia 10 mg daily.5. Ambien 10 mg at bedtime.6. Fosamax 70 mg weekly.DIAGNOSES:1. Controlled hypertension.2. Morbid obesity.3. Osteoarthritis.4. Obstructive sleep apnea syndrome.5. Normal coronary arteriogram.6. Severe backache.PLAN:1. Echocardiogram, stress test.2 Routine blood tests.3. Sleep apnea study.4. Patient will be seen again in my office in two weeks."
"SUBJECTIVE: The patient is a 78-year-old female with the problem of essential hypertension. She has symptoms that suggested intracranial pathology, but so far work-up has been negative.She is taking hydrochlorothiazide 25-mg once a day and K-Dur 10-mEq once a day with adequate control of her blood pressure. She denies any chest pain, shortness of breath, PND, ankle swelling, or dizziness.OBJECTIVE: Heart rate is 80 and blood pressure is 130/70. Head and neck are unremarkable. Heart sounds are normal. Abdomen is benign. Extremities are without edema.ASSESSMENT AND PLAN: The patient reports that she had an echocardiogram done in the office of Dr. Sample Doctor4 and was told that she had a massive heart attack in the past. I have not had the opportunity to review any investigative data like chest x-ray, echocardiogram, EKG, etc. So, I advised her to have a chest x-ray and an EKG done before her next appointment, and we will try to get hold of the echocardiogram on her from the office of Dr. Sample Doctor4. In the meantime, she is doing quite well, and she was advised to continue her current medication and return to the office in three months for followup."
"SUBJECTIVE: The patient is not in acute distress.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:VITAL SIGNS: Blood pressure of 121/63, pulse is 75, and O2 saturation is 94% on room air.HEAD AND NECK: Face is symmetrical. Cranial nerves are intact.CHEST: There is prolonged expiration.CARDIOVASCULAR: First and second heart sounds are heard. No murmur was appreciated.ABDOMEN: Soft and nontender. Bowel sounds are positive.EXTREMITIES: He has 2+ pedal swelling.NEUROLOGIC: The patient is asleep, but easily arousable.LABORATORY DATA: PTT is 49. INR is pending. BUN is improved to 20.6, creatinine is 0.7, sodium is 123, and potassium is 3.8. AST is down to 45 and ALT to 99.DIAGNOSTIC STUDIES: Nuclear stress test showed moderate size, mostly fixed defect involving the inferior wall with a small area of peri-infarct ischemia. Ejection fraction is 25%.ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:1. Congestive heart failure due to rapid atrial fibrillation and systolic dysfunction. Continue current treatment as per Cardiology. We will consider adding ACE inhibitors as renal function improves.2. Acute pulmonary edema, resolved.3. Rapid atrial fibrillation, rate controlled. The patient is on beta-blockers and digoxin. Continue Coumadin. Monitor INR.4. Coronary artery disease with ischemic cardiomyopathy. Continue beta-blockers.5. Urinary tract infection. Continue Rocephin.6. Bilateral perfusion secondary to congestive heart failure. We will monitor.7. Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, stable.8. Abnormal liver function due to congestive heart failure with liver congestion, improving.9. Rule out hypercholesterolemia. We will check lipid profile.10. Tobacco smoking disorder. The patient has been counseled.11. Hyponatremia, stable. This is due to fluid overload. Continue diuresis as per Nephrology.12. Deep venous thrombosis prophylaxis. The patient is on heparin drip."
"REASON FOR CONSULTATION: Cardiomyopathy and hypotension.HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: I am seeing the patient upon the request of Dr. X. The patient is very well known to me, an 81-year-old lady with dementia, a native American with coronary artery disease with prior bypass, reduced LV function, recurrent admissions for diarrhea and hypotension several times in November and was admitted yesterday because of having diarrhea with hypotension and acute renal insufficiency secondary to that. Because of her pre-existing coronary artery disease and cardiomyopathy with EF of about 30%, we were consulted to evaluate the patient. The patient denies any chest pain or chest pressure. Denies any palpitations. No bleeding difficulty. No dizzy spells.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:CONSTITUTIONAL: No fever or chills.EYES: No visual disturbances.ENT: No difficulty swallowing.CARDIOVASCULAR: Basically, no angina or chest pressure. No palpitations.RESPIRATORY: No wheezes.GI: No abdominal pain, although she had diarrhea.GU: No specific symptoms.MUSCULOSKELETAL: Have sores on the back.NEUROLOGIC: Have dementia.All other systems are otherwise unremarkable as far as the patient can give me information.PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:1. Positive for coronary artery disease for about two to three years.2. Hypertension.3. Anemia.4. Chronic renal insufficiency.5. Congestive heart failure with EF of 25% to 30%.6. Osteoporosis.7. Compression fractures.8. Diabetes mellitus.9. Hypothyroidism.PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:1. Coronary artery bypass grafting x3 in 2008.2. Cholecystectomy.3. Amputation of the right second toe.4. ICD implantation.CURRENT MEDICATIONS AT HOME:1. Amoxicillin.2. Clavulanic acid or Augmentin every 12 hours.3. Clopidogrel 75 mg daily.4. Simvastatin 20 mg daily.5. Sodium bicarbonate 650 mg twice daily.6. Gabapentin 300 mg.7. Levothyroxine once daily.8. Digoxin 125 mcg daily.9. Fenofibrate 145 mg daily.10. Aspirin 81 mg daily.11. Raloxifene once daily.12. Calcium carbonate and alendronate.13. Metoprolol 25 mg daily.14. Brimonidine ophthalmic once daily.ALLERGIES: She has no known allergies.FAMILY HISTORY: Noncontributory to this admission.SOCIAL HISTORY: She lives with husband, who is elderly, cannot take care of her. She does not smoke or drink alcohol currently.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:GENERAL: Elderly in no apparent distress.VITAL SIGNS: Heart rate of 71, blood pressure 116/48. Upon presentation, her blood pressure was in the 80s.HEENT: Normocephalic and atraumatic. No thyromegaly or lymphadenopathy.NECK: Supple.CARDIOVASCULAR: Carotid upstroke normal. Jugular venous pressure is about 7 cm of H2O. The heart is irregularly irregular with a normal S1 and S2. There is a 2/6 holosystolic murmur.LUNGS: Clear to auscultation. No rales.ABDOMEN: Benign.MUSCULOSKELETAL: No edema.LABORATORY TESTS: Hemoglobin of 8.7, hematocrit 25.7. BUN 111; creatinine of 5.0, prior creatinine of 1.88 on 11/30/2009. Troponin of 0.09 with very elevated myoglobin of 575. The blood dipstick in the urine was moderate.ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:1. Elderly with rhabdomyolysis, acute renal insufficiency, secondary to diarrhea. Evaluate for C diff.2. Hydration. Increase fluids to about 200 an hour. Consult with Nephrology.3. Hold off beta-blockers at this time until blood pressure is more stable. May restart metoprolol 25 mg b.i.d.4. No need for EF. Assessment plus EF is about 30% with mitral regurgitation on a very recent echocardiogram.5. Further recommendations will depend on the blood pressure over the next 24 hours."
"Re: Sample PatientDear Sample Doctor:Thank you for referring Mr. Sample Patient for cardiac evaluation. This is a 67-year-old, obese male who has a history of therapy-controlled hypertension, borderline diabetes, and obesity. He has a family history of coronary heart disease but denies any symptoms of angina pectoris or effort intolerance. Specifically, no chest discomfort of any kind, no dyspnea on exertion unless extreme exertion is performed, no orthopnea or PND. He is known to have a mother with coronary heart disease. He has never been a smoker. He has never had a syncopal episode, MI, or CVA. He had his gallbladder removed. No bleeding tendencies. No history of DVT or pulmonary embolism. The patient is retired, rarely consumes alcohol and consumes coffee moderately. He apparently has a sleep disorder, according to his wife (not in the office), the patient snores and stops breathing during sleep. He is allergic to codeine and aspirin (angioedema).Physical exam revealed a middle-aged man weighing 283 pounds for a height of 5 feet 11 inches. His heart rate was 98 beats per minute and regular. His blood pressure was 140/80 mmHg in the right arm in a sitting position and 150/80 mmHg in a standing position. He is in no distress. Venous pressure is normal. Carotid pulsations are normal without bruits. The lungs are clear. Cardiac exam was normal. The abdomen was obese and organomegaly was not palpated. There were no pulsatile masses or bruits. The femoral pulses were 3+ in character with a symmetrical distribution and dorsalis pedis and posterior tibiales were 3+ in character. There was no peripheral edema. He had a chemistry profile, which suggests diabetes mellitus with a fasting blood sugar of 136 mg/dl. Renal function was normal. His lipid profile showed a slight increase in triglycerides with normal total cholesterol and HDL and an acceptable range of LDL. His sodium was a little bit increased. His A1c hemoglobin was increased. He had a spirometry, which was reported as normal. He had a resting electrocardiogram on December 20, 2002, which was also normal. He had a treadmill Cardiolite, which was performed only to stage 2 and was terminated by the supervising physician when the patient achieved 90% of the predicted maximum heart rate. There were no symptoms or ischemia by EKG. There was some suggestion of inferior wall ischemia with normal wall motion by Cardiolite imaging.In summary, we have a 67-year-old gentleman with risk factors for coronary heart disease. I am concerned with possible diabetes and a likely metabolic syndrome of this gentleman with truncal obesity, hypertension, possible insulin resistance, and some degree of fasting hyperglycemia, as well as slight triglyceride elevation. He denies any symptoms of coronary heart disease, but he probably has some degree of coronary atherosclerosis, possibly affecting the inferior wall by functional testings. In view of the absence of symptoms, medical therapy is indicated at the present time, with very aggressive risk factor modification. I explained and discussed extensively with the patient, the benefits of regular exercise and a walking program was given to the patient. He also should start aggressively losing weight. I have requested additional testing today, which will include an apolipoprotein B, LPa lipoprotein, as well as homocystine, and cardio CRP to further assess his risk of atherosclerosis. In terms of medication, I have changed his verapamil for a long acting beta-blocker, he should continue on an ACE inhibitor and his Plavix. The patient is allergic to aspirin. I also will probably start him on a statin, if any of the studies that I have recommended come back abnormal and furthermore, if he is confirmed to have diabetes. Along this line, perhaps, we should consider obtaining the advice of an endocrinologist to decide whether this gentleman needs treatment for diabetes, which I believe he should. This, however, I will leave entirely up to you to decide. If indeed, he is considered to be a diabetic, a much more aggressive program should be entertained for reducing the risks of atherosclerosis in general, and coronary artery disease in particular.I do not find an indication at this point in time to proceed with any further testing, such as coronary angiography, in the absence of symptoms.If you have any further questions, please do not hesitate to let me know.Thank you once again for this kind referral.Sincerely,Sample Doctor, M.D."
"HISTORY: The patient is an 86-year-old woman with a history of aortic valve replacement in the past with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation who was admitted yesterday with the recurrence of such in a setting of hypokalemia, incomplete compliance with obstructive sleep apnea therapy with CPAP, chocolate/caffeine ingestion and significant mental stress. Despite repletion of her electrolytes and maintenance with Diltiazem IV she has maintained atrial fibrillation. I have discussed in detail with the patient regarding risks, benefits, and alternatives of the procedure. After an in depth discussion of the procedure (please see my initial consultation for further details) I asked the patient this morning if she would like me to repeat that as that discussion had happened yesterday. The patient declined. I invited questions for her which she stated she had none and wanted to go forward with the cardioversion which seemed appropriate.PROCEDURE NOTE: The appropriate time-out procedure was performed as per Medical Center protocol including proper identification of the patient, physician, procedure, documentation, and there were no safety issues identified by myself nor the staff. The patient participated actively in this. She received a total of 4 mg of Versed then and 50 micrograms of fentanyl with utilizing titrated conscious sedation with good effect. She was placed in the supine position and hands free patches had previously been placed in the AP position and she received one synchronized cardioversion attempt after Diltiazem drip had been turned off with successful resumption of normal sinus rhythm. This was confirmed on 12 lead EKG.IMPRESSION/PLAN: Successful resumption of normal sinus rhythm from recurrent atrial fibrillation. The patient's electrolytes are now normal and that will need close watching to avoid hypokalemia in the future, as well as she has been previously counseled for strict adherence to sleep apnea therapy with CPAP and perhaps repeat sleep evaluation would be appropriate to titrate her settings, as well as avoidance of caffeine ingestion including chocolate and minimization of mental stress. She will be discharged on her usual robust AV nodal antiarrhythmic therapy with sotalol 80 mg p.o. b.i.d., metoprolol 50 mg p.o. b.i.d., Diltiazem CD 240 mg p.o. daily and digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. daily and to be clear she does have a permanent pacemaker implanted. She will follow-up with her regular cardiologist, Dr. X, for whom I am covering this weekend.This was all discussed in detail with the patient, as well as her granddaughter with the patient's verbal consent at the bedside."
"PROCEDURE: Direct current cardioversion.REASON FOR PROCEDURE: Atrial fibrillation.PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: The procedure was explained to the patient with risks and benefits including risk of stroke. The patient understands as well as her husband. The patient had already a transesophageal echocardiogram showing no left atrial appendage thrombus or thrombus in the left atrium. There was spontaneous echocardiogram contrast noticed. The patient was on anticoagulation with Lovenox, received already 3 mg of Versed and 25 mcg of fentanyl for the TEE followed by next 2 mg of Versed for total of 5 mg of Versed. The pads applied in the anterior and posterior approach. With synchronized biphasic waveform at 150 J, one shock was successful in restoring sinus rhythm. The patient had some occasional PACs noticed with occasional sinus tachycardia. The patient had no immediate post-procedure complications. The rhythm was maintained and 12-lead EKG was requested.IMPRESSION: Successful direct current cardioversion with restoration of sinus rhythm from atrial fibrillation with no immediate complication."
"PROCEDURE: Direct-current cardioversion.BRIEF HISTORY: This is a 53-year-old gentleman with history of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation for 3 years. He had a wide area of circumferential ablation done on November 9th for atrial fibrillation. He did develop recurrent atrial fibrillation the day before yesterday and this is persistent. Therefore, he came in for cardioversion today. He is still within the first 4 to 6 weeks post ablation where we would attempt early cardioversion.The patient was in the SDI unit, attached to noninvasive monitoring devices. After Brevital was brought by the anesthesia service a single 150 joule synchronized biphasic shock using AP paddles did restore him to sinus rhythm in the 80s. He tolerated it well. He will be observed for couple hours and discharged home later today. He will continue on his current medications. He will follow back up in two to three weeks in the Atrial Fibrillation Clinic and then again in a couple months with myself.CONCLUSIONS / FINAL DIAGNOSES: Successful DC cardioversion of atrial fibrillation."
"REASON FOR EXAM: Atrial flutter/cardioversion.PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: The procedure was explained to the patient with risks and benefits. The patient agreed and signed the consent form. The patient received sedation prior to the cardioversion with a transesophageal echo as dictated earlier with a total of 50 mcg of fentanyl and 6 mg of Versed. The pads were applied in the anterior-posterior approach. The synchronized cardioversion with biphasic energy delivered at 150 J. First attempt was unsuccessful. Second attempt at 200 J with anterior-posterior approach. With biphasic synchronized energy delivered was also unsuccessful with degeneration of the atrial flutter into atrial fibrillation.The patient was decided to be on wave control and amiodarone and reattempted cardioversion after anticoagulation for four to six weeks and because of the reduced LV function, the success of the rate without antiarrhythmic may be low.IMPRESSION: Unsuccessful direct current cardioversion with permanent atrial fibrillation."
"EXAM: Carotid and cerebral arteriograms.INDICATION: Abnormal carotid duplex studies demonstrating occlusion of the left internal carotid artery.IMPRESSION:1. Complete occlusion of the left common carotid artery approximately 3 cm distal to its origin.2. Mild stenosis of the right internal carotid artery measured at 20%.3. Patent bilateral vertebral arteries.4. No significant disease was identified of the anterior cerebral vessels.DISCUSSION: Carotid and cerebral arteriograms were performed on Month DD, YYYY, previous studies are not available for comparison.The right groin was sterilely cleansed and draped. Lidocaine 1% buffered with sodium bicarbonate was used as local anesthetic. A 19-French needle was then advanced into the common femoral artery and a wire was advanced. Over the wire, a sheath was placed. A wire was then advanced into the abdominal aorta and over the wire and the flushed catheter was then advanced to the arch of the aorta over a wire. Flushed arteriogram was performed. Arteriogram demonstrated no significant disease of the great vessels at their origins. There is demonstration of complete occlusion of the left common carotid artery approximately 3 cm distal to its origin. The vertebral arteries were widely patent. Following this, the flushed catheter was exchanged for ***** catheter and selective catheterization of the common carotid artery on the right was performed. Carotid and cerebral arteriograms were performed. The carotid arteriograms on the right demonstrated the carotid bulb to be unremarkable. The external carotid artery on the right is quite tortuous in its appearance. The internal carotid artery demonstrates a mild plaque creating stenosis, which is measured approximately 20%. Cerebral arteriogram on the right demonstrated the A1 and M1 segments bilaterally to be normal. No significant stenosis identified. There is complete cross-filling into the left brain via the right. No significant stenosis was appreciated.Following this, the catheter was parked at the origin of the left common carotid artery and ejection demonstrated complete occlusion.The patient tolerated the procedure well. No complications occurred during or immediately after the procedure. Stasis was achieved of the puncture site using a VasoSeal. The patient will be observed for at least 2-1/2 hours prior to being discharged to home."
"Grade I: Intimal thickening or some atherosclerotic plaques are seen appearing to cause less than 40% obstruction.Grade II: Atherosclerotic plaques are seen which appear to be causing 40-60% obstruction.Grade III: Atherosclerotic plaques are seen which appear to be causing greater than 60% obstruction.Grade IV: The vessel is not pulsating and the artery appears to be totally obstructed with no blood flow in it.RIGHT CAROTID SYSTEM: The common carotid artery and bulb area shows mild intimal thickening with no increase in velocity and no evidence for any obstructive disease. The internal carotid artery shows intimal thickening with some mixed plaques, but no increase in velocity and no evidence for any significant obstructive disease. The external carotid artery shows no disease. The vertebral was present and was antegrade.LEFT CAROTID SYSTEM: The common carotid artery and bulb area shows mild intimal thickening, but no increase in velocity and no evidence for any significant obstructive disease. the internal carotid artery shows some intimal thickening with mixed plaques, but no increase in velocity and no evidence for any significant obstructive disease. The external carotid artery shows no disease. The vertebral was present and was antegrade.IMPRESSION: Bilateral atherosclerotic changes with no evidence for any significant obstructive disease."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:1. Right carotid stenosis.2. Prior cerebrovascular accident.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:1. Right carotid stenosis.2. Prior cerebrovascular accident.PROCEDURE PERFORMED: Right carotid endarterectomy with patch angioplasty.ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: 250 cc.OPERATIVE FINDINGS: The common and internal carotid arteries were opened. A high-grade narrowing was present at the proximal internal carotid and this tapered well to a slightly small diameter internal carotid. This was repaired with a Dacron patch and the patient tolerated this well under regional anesthetic without need for shunting.PROCEDURE: The patient was taken to the operating room, placed in supine position, prepped and draped in the usual sterile manner with Betadine solution. Longitudinal incisions were made along the anterior border of the sternocleidomastoid, carried down through subcutaneous fat and fascia. Hemostasis was obtained with electrocautery. The platysmal muscle was divided. The carotid sheath was identified and opened. The vagus nerve, ansa cervicalis, and hypoglossal nerves were identified and avoided. The common internal and external carotids were then freed from the surrounding tissue. At this point, 10,000 units of aqueous heparin were administered and allowed to take effect. The external and common carotids were then clamped. The patient's neurological status was evaluated and found to be unchanged from preoperative levels.Once sufficient time had lapsed, we proceeded with the procedure. The carotid bulb was opened with a #11 blade and extended with Potts scissors through the very tight lesion into normal internal carotid. The plaque was then sharply excised proximally and an eversion endarterectomy was performed successfully at the external. The plaque tapered nicely on the internal and no tacking sutures were necessary. Heparinized saline was injected and no evidence of flapping or other debris was noted. The remaining carotid was examined under magnification, which showed no debris of flaps present. At this point, a Dacron patch was brought on to the field, cut to appropriate length and size, and anastomosed to the artery using #6-0 Prolene in a running fashion. Prior to the time of last stitch, the internal carotid was back-bled through this. The last stitch was tied. Hemostasis was excellent. The internal was again gently occluded while flow was restored to the common and external carotids for several moments and then flow was restored to the entire system. At this point, a total of 50 mg of Protamine was administered and allowed to take effect. Hemostasis was excellent. The wound was irrigated with antibiotic solution and closed in layers using #3-0 Vicryl and #4-0 undyed Vicryl. The patient was then taken to the recovery room in satisfactory condition after tolerating the procedure well. Sponge, needles, and instrument count were correct. Estimated blood loss was 250 cc."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Right common, internal and external carotid artery stenosis.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Right common, internal and external carotid artery stenosis.OPERATIONS1. Right common carotid endarterectomy.2. Right internal carotid endarterectomy.3. Right external carotid endarterectomy.4. Hemashield patch angioplasty of the right common, internal and external carotid arteries.ANESTHESIA: General endotracheal anesthesia.URINE OUTPUT: Not recordedOPERATION IN DETAIL: After obtaining informed consent from the patient, including a thorough explanation of the risks and benefits of the aforementioned procedure, the patient was taken to the operating room and general endotracheal anesthesia was administered. Next the right neck was prepped and draped in the standard surgical fashion. A #10-blade scalpel was used to make an incision at the anterior tip of the sternocleidomastoid muscle. Dissection was carried down to the level of the carotid artery using Bovie electrocautery and sharp dissection with Metzenbaum scissors. The common, internal and external carotid arteries were identified. The facial vein was ligated with #3-0 silk. The hypoglossal nerve was identified and preserved as it coursed across the carotid artery. After dissecting out an adequate length of common, internal and external carotid artery, heparin was given. Next, an umbilical tape was passed around the common carotid artery. A #0 silk suture was passed around the internal and external carotid arteries. The hypoglossal nerve was identified and preserved. An appropriate sized Argyle shunt was chosen. A Hemashield patch was cut to the appropriate size. Next, vascular clamps were placed on the external carotid artery. DeBakey pickups were used to control the internal carotid artery and common carotid artery. A #11-blade scalpel was used to make an incision on the common carotid artery. The arteriotomy was lengthened onto the internal carotid artery. Next, the Argyle shunt was placed. It was secured in place. Next, an endarterectomy was performed; and this was done on the common, internal carotid and external carotid arteries. An inversion technique was used on the external carotid artery. The artery was irrigated and free debris was removed. Next, we sewed the Hemashield patch onto the artery using #6-0 Prolene in a running fashion. Prior to completion of our anastomosis, we removed our shunt. We completed the anastomosis. Next, we removed our clamp from the external carotid artery, followed by the common carotid artery, and lastly by the internal carotid artery. There was no evidence of bleeding. Full-dose protamine was given. The incision was closed with #0 Vicryl, followed by #2-0 Vicryl, followed by #4-0 PDS in a running subcuticular fashion. A sterile dressing was applied."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Critical left carotid stenosis.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Critical left carotid stenosis.PROCEDURE PERFORMED: Left carotid endarterectomy with endovascular patch angioplasty.ANESTHESIA: Cervical block.GROSS FINDINGS: The patient is a 57-year-old black female with chronic renal failure. She does have known critical carotid artery stenosis. She wishes to undergo bilateral carotid endarterectomy, however, it was felt necessary by Dr. X to perform cardiac catheterization. She was admitted to the hospital yesterday with chest pain. She has been considered for coronary artery bypass grafting. I have been asked to address the carotid stenosis, left being more severe, this was addressed first. Intraoperatively, an atherosclerotic plaque was noted in the common carotid artery extending into the internal carotid artery. The internal carotid artery is quite torturous. The external carotid artery was occluded at its origin. When the endarterectomy was performed, the external carotid artery back-bled nicely. The internal carotid artery had good backflow bleeding noted.OPERATIVE PROCEDURE: The patient was taken to the OR suite and placed in the supine position. Then neck, shoulder, and chest wall were prepped and draped in appropriate manner. Longitudinal incision was created along the anterior border of the left sternocleidal mastoid muscle and this was taken through the subcutaneous tissue and platysmal muscle utilizing electrocautery.Utilizing both blunt and sharp dissections, the common carotid artery, the internal carotid artery beyond the atherosclerotic back, the external carotid artery, and the superior thyroid artery were isolated and encircled with a umbilical tape. During the dissection, facial veins were ligated with #4-0 silk ligature prior to dividing them. Also during the dissection, ansa cervicalis, hypoglossal, and vagus nerve identified and preserved. There was some inflammation above the carotid bulb, but this was not problematic.The patient had been administered 5000 units of aqueous heparin after allowing adequate circulating time. The internal carotid artery is controlled with Heifitz clip followed by the external carotid artery and the superior thyroid artery being controlled with Heifitz clips. The common carotid artery was controlled with profunda clamp. The patient remained neurologically intact. A longitudinal arteriotomy was created along the posterior lateral border of the common carotid artery. This was extended across the lobe on to the internal carotid artery. An endarterectomy was then performed. The ________ intima was cleared of all debris and the ________ was flushed with copious amounts of heparinized saline. As mentioned before, the internal carotid artery is quite torturous. This was shortened by imbricating the internal carotid artery with horizontal mattress stitches of #7-0 Prolene suture.The wound was copiously irrigated, rather an endovascular patch was then brought on to the field. This was cut to shape and length. This was sutured in place with continuous running #6-0 Prolene suture. The suture line began at both sites. The suture was tied in the center along the anterior and posterior walls. Prior to completing the closure, the common carotid artery was flushed. The internal carotid artery permitted to back bleed. The clamp was placed after completing the closure. The clamp was placed at the origin of the internal carotid artery. Flow was first directed into the external carotid artery then into the internal carotid artery. The patient remained neurologically intact. Topical ________ Gelfoam was utilized. Of note, during the endarterectomy, the patient did receive an additional 7000 units of aqueous heparin. The wound was copiously irrigated with antibiotic solution. Sponge, needle, and all counts were correct. All surgical sites were inspected. Good hemostasis noted. The incision was closed in layers with absorbable suture. Stainless steel staples approximated skin. Sterile dressings were applied. The patient tolerated the procedure well, grossly neurologically intact."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES1. Empyema thoracis.2. Need for intravenous antibiotics.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES1. Empyema thoracis.2. Need for intravenous antibiotics.PROCEDURE: Central line insertion.DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: With the patient in his room, after obtaining the informed consent, his left deltopectoral area was prepped and draped in the usual fashion. Xylocaine 1% was infiltrated and with the patient in the Trendelenburg position, the left subclavian vein was subcutaneously cannulated without any difficulty. The triple-lumen catheter was inserted and all ports were flushed out and were irrigated with normal saline. The catheter was fixed to the skin with sutures. The dressing was applied and then the chest x-ray was obtained which showed no complications of the procedure and good position of the catheter."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:1. Severe chronic obstructive coronary disease.2. Respiratory failure.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:1. Severe chronic obstructive coronary disease.2. Respiratory failure.OPERATION: Right subclavian triple lumen central line placement.ANESTHESIA: Local Xylocaine.INDICATIONS FOR OPERATION: This 50-year-old gentleman with severe respiratory failure is mechanically ventilated. He is currently requiring multiple intravenous drips, and Dr. X has kindly requested central line placement.INFORMED CONSENT: The patient was unable to provide his own consent, secondary to mechanical ventilation and sedation. No available family to provide conservator ship was located either.PROCEDURE: With the patient in his Intensive Care Unit bed, mechanically ventilated in the Trendelenburg position. The right neck was prepped and draped with Betadine in a sterile fashion. Single needle stick aspiration of the right subclavian vein was accomplished without difficulty, and the guide wire was advanced. The dilator was advanced over the wire. The triple lumen catheter was cannulated over the wire, and the wire then removed. No PVCs were encountered during the procedure. All three ports to the catheter aspirated and flushed blood easily, and they were all flushed with normal saline. The catheter was anchored to the chest wall with butterfly phalange using 3-0 silk suture. Betadine ointment and a sterile Op-Site dressing were applied. Stat upright chest x-ray was obtained at the completion of the procedure, and final results are pending.FINDINGS/SPECIMENS REMOVED: NoneCOMPLICATIONS: None.ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: Nil."
"INDICATIONS FOR PROCEDURES: Impending open-heart surgery for atrial septectomy and bilateral bidirectional Glenn procedure.The patient was already under general anesthesia in the operating room. Antibiotic prophylaxis with cephazolin and gentamicin were already given. A strict aseptic technique was used including use of gowns, mask, and gloves, etc. The skin was cleansed with alcohol and then prepped with ChloraPrep solution.PROCEDURE #1: Insertion of central venous line.DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE #1: Attention was directed to the right groin. A Cook 4-French double-lumen 12-cm long central venous heparin-coated catheter kit was opened. Using the 21-gauge needle that comes with this kit, the needle was inserted approximately 2 cm below the right inguinal ligament just medial to the pulsations of the femoral artery. There was good venous blood return on the first try. Using the Seldinger technique, the soft J-end of the wire was inserted through the needle without resistance approximately 15 cm. It was then exchanged for a 5-French dilator followed by the 4-French double-lumen catheter and the wire was removed intact. There was good blood return from both lumens, which were flushed with heparinized saline. The catheter was sutured to the skin at three points with #4-0 silk for stabilization.PROCEDURE #2: Insertion of arterial line.DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE #2: Attention was directed to the left wrist, which was placed on wrist rest. The Allen test was normal. A Cook 2.5-French 5 cm long arterial catheter kit was opened. A 22-gauge IV cannula was used to enter the artery, which was done on the first try with good pulsatile blood return. Using the Seldinger technique, the catheter was exchanged for a 2.5-French catheter and the wire was removed intact. There was pulsatile blood return and the catheter was flushed with heparinized saline solution. It was sutured to the skin with #4-0 silk at three points for stabilization.Both catheters functioned well throughout the procedure. The distal circulation of the leg and the hand was intact immediately after insertion, approximately 20 minutes later, and at the end of the procedure. There were no complications.PROCEDURE #3: Insertion of transesophageal echocardiography probe.DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE #3: The probe was inserted under direct vision because initially there was some resistance to insertion. Under direct vision, using the #2 Miller blade, the upper esophageal opening was visualized and the probe was passed easily without resistance. There was good visualization of the heart. The probe was used by the pediatric cardiologist for preoperative and postoperative diagnostic echocardiography. The probe was removed at the end. There was no trauma and there was no blood tingeing."
"PROCEDURE: Delayed primary chest closure.INDICATIONS: The patient is a newborn with diagnosis of hypoplastic left heart syndrome who 48 hours prior to the current procedure has undergone a modified stage 1 Norwood operation. Given the magnitude of the operation and the size of the patient (2.5 kg), we have elected to leave the chest open to facilitate postoperative management. He is now taken back to the operative room for delayed primary chest closure.PREOP DX: Open chest status post modified stage 1 Norwood operation.POSTOP DX: Open chest status post modified stage 1 Norwood operation.ANESTHESIA: General endotracheal.COMPLICATIONS: None.FINDINGS: No evidence of intramediastinal purulence or hematoma. He tolerated the procedure well.DETAILS OF PROCEDURE: The patient was brought to the operating room and placed on the operating table in the supine position. Following general endotracheal anesthesia, the chest was prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion. The previously placed AlloDerm membrane was removed. Mediastinal cultures were obtained, and the mediastinum was then profusely irrigated and suctioned. Both cavities were also irrigated and suctioned. The drains were flushed and repositioned. Approximately 30 cubic centimeters of blood were drawn slowly from the right atrial line. The sternum was then smeared with a vancomycin paste. The proximal aspect of the 5 mm RV-PA conduit was marked with a small titanium clip at its inferior most aspect and with an additional one on its rightward inferior side. The sternum was then closed with stainless steel wires followed by closure of subcutaneous tissues with interrupted monofilament stitches. The skin was closed with interrupted nylon sutures and a sterile dressing was placed. The peritoneal dialysis catheter, atrial and ventricular pacing wires were removed. The patient was transferred to the pediatric intensive unit shortly thereafter in very stable condition.I was the surgical attending present in the operating room and in charge of the surgical procedure throughout the entire length of the case."
"CHIEF COMPLAINT: Palpitations.CHEST PAIN / UNSPECIFIED ANGINA PECTORIS HISTORY: The patient relates the recent worsening of chronic chest discomfort. The quality of the pain is sharp and the problem started 2 years ago. Pain radiates to the back and condition is best described as severe. Patient denies syncope. Beyond baseline at present time. Past work up has included 24 hour Holter monitoring and echocardiography. Holter showed PVCs.PALPITATIONS HISTORY: Palpitations - frequent, 2 x per week. No caffeine, no ETOH. + stress. No change with Inderal.VALVULAR DISEASE HISTORY: Patient has documented mitral valve prolapse on echocardiography in 1992.PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: No significant past medical problems. Mitral Valve Prolapse.FAMILY MEDICAL HISTORY: CAD.OB-GYN HISTORY: The patients last child birth was 1997. Para 3. Gravida 3.SOCIAL HISTORY: Denies using caffeinated beverages, alcohol or the use of any tobacco products.ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies/Intolerances.CURRENT MEDICATIONS: Inderal 20 prn.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Generally healthy. The patient is a good historian.ROS Head and Eyes: Denies vision changes, light sensitivity, blurred vision, or double vision.ROS Ear, Nose and Throat: The patient denies any ear, nose or throat symptoms.ROS Respiratory: Patient denies any respiratory complaints, such as cough, shortness of breath, chest pain, wheezing, hemoptysis, etc.ROS Gastrointestinal: Patient denies any gastrointestinal symptoms, such as anorexia, weight loss, dysphagia, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, abdominal distention, altered bowel movements, diarrhea, constipation, rectal bleeding, hematochezia.ROS Genitourinary: Patient denies any genito-urinary complaints, such as hematuria, dysuria, frequency, urgency, hesitancy, nocturia, incontinence.ROS Gynecological: Denies any gynecological complaints, such as vaginal bleeding, discharge, pain, etc.ROS Musculoskeletal: The patient denies any past or present problems related to the musculoskeletal system.ROS Extremities: The patient denies any extremities complaints.ROS Cardiovascular: As per HPI.EXAMINATION:Exam Abdomen/Flank: The abdomen is soft without tenderness or palpable masses. No guarding, rigidity or rebound tenderness. The liver and spleen are not palpable. Bowel sounds are active and normal.Exam Extremities: Lower extremities are normal in color, touch and temperature. No ischemic changes are noted.Range of motion is normal. There is no cyanosis, clubbing or edema.General: Healthy appearing, well developed,. The patient is in no acute distress.Exam Skin Negative to inspection or palpation. There are no obvious lesions or new rashes noted. Non-diaphoretic.Exam Ears Canals are clear. Throat is not injected. Tonsils are not swollen or injected.Exam Neck: There is no thyromegaly, carotid bruits, lymphadenopathy, or JVD. Neck is supple.Exam Respiratory: Normal breath sounds are heard bilaterally. There is no wheezing. There is no use of accessory muscles.Exam Cardiovascular: Regular heart rate and rhythm, Normal S1 and S2 without murmur, gallops or rubs.IMPRESSION / DIAGNOSIS: Mitral Valve Prolapse. Palpitations.TESTS ORDERED: Cardiac tests: Echocardiogram.MEDICATION PRESCRIBED: Cardizem 30-60 qid prn.PLAN: The patient was reassured about the current condition and symptoms. The patient understood the explanations and is agreeable.FOLLOW UP / INSTRUCTIONS: Return to office in 8 weeks or sooner if there are any problems."
"EXAM: Chest PA & Lateral.REASON FOR EXAM: Shortness of breath, evaluate for pneumothorax versus left-sided effusion.INTERPRETATION: There has been interval development of a moderate left-sided pneumothorax with near complete collapse of the left upper lobe. The lower lobe appears aerated. There is stable, diffuse, bilateral interstitial thickening with no definite acute air space consolidation. The heart and pulmonary vascularity are within normal limits. Left-sided port is seen with Groshong tip at the SVC/RA junction. No evidence for acute fracture, malalignment, or dislocation.IMPRESSION:1. Interval development of moderate left-sided pneumothorax with corresponding left lung atelectasis.2. Rest of visualized exam nonacute/stable.3. Left central line appropriately situated and stable.4. Preliminary report was issued at time of dictation. Dr. X was called for results."
"REASON FOR REFERRAL: Chest pain, possible syncopal spells.She is a very pleasant 31-year-old mother of two children with ADD.She was doing okay until January of 2009 when she had a partial hysterectomy. Since then she just says \"\"things have changed\"\". She just does not want to go out anymore and just does not feel the same. Also, at the same time, she is having a lot of household stressors with both of her children having ADD and ODD and she feels she does not get enough support from her husband. Her 11-year-old is having a lot of trouble at school and she often has to go there to take care of problems.In this setting, she has been having multiple cardiovascular complaints including chest pains, which feel \"\"like cramps\"\" and sometimes like a dull ache, which will last all day long. She is also tender in the left breast area and gets numbness in her left hand. She has also had three spells of \"\"falling\"\", she is not really clear on whether these are syncopal, but they sound like they could be as she sees spots before her eyes. Twice it happened, when getting up quickly at night and another time in the grocery store. She suffered no trauma. She has no remote history of syncope. Her weight has not changed in the past year.MEDICATIONS: Naprosyn, which she takes up to six a day.ALLERGIES: Sulfa.SOCIAL HISTORY: She does not smoke or drink. She is married with two children.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Otherwise unremarkable.PEX: BP: 130/70 without orthostatic changes. PR: 72. WT: 206 pounds. She is a healthy young woman. No JVD. No carotid bruit. No thyromegaly. Cardiac: Regular rate and rhythm. There is no significant murmur, gallop, or rub. Chest: Mildly tender in the upper pectoral areas bilaterally (breast exam was not performed). Lungs: Clear. Abdomen: Soft. Moderately overweight. Extremities: No edema and good distal pulses.EKG: Normal sinus rhythm, normal EKG.ECHOCARDIOGRAM (FOR SYNCOPE): Essentially normal study.IMPRESSION:1. Syncopal spells - These do sound, in fact, to be syncopal. I suspect it is simple orthostasis/vasovagal, as her EKG and echocardiogram looks good. I have asked her to drink plenty of fluids and to not to get up suddenly at night. I think this should take care of the problem. I would not recommend further workup unless these spells continue, at which time I would recommend a tilt-table study.2. Chest pains - Atypical for cardiac etiology, undoubtedly due to musculoskeletal factors from her emotional stressors. The Naprosyn is not helping that much, I gave her a prescription for Flexeril and instructed her in its use (not to drive after taking it).RECOMMENDATIONS:1. Reassurance that her cardiac checkup looks excellent, which it does.2. Drink plenty of fluids and arise slowly from bed.3. Flexeril 10 mg q 6 p.r.n.4. I have asked her to return should the syncopal spells continue."
"DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:1. Chest pain. The patient ruled out for myocardial infarction on serial troponins. Result of nuclear stress test is pending.2. Elevated liver enzymes, etiology uncertain for an outpatient followup.3. Acid reflux disease.TEST DONE: Nuclear stress test, results of which are pending.HOSPITAL COURSE: This 32-year-old with family history of premature coronary artery disease came in for evaluation of recurrent chest pain, O2 saturation at 94% with both atypical and typical features of ischemia. The patient ruled out for myocardial infarction with serial troponins. Nuclear stress test has been done, results of which are pending. The patient is stable to be discharged pending the results of nuclear stress test and cardiologist's recommendations. He will follow up with cardiologist, Dr. X, in two weeks and with his primary physician in two to four weeks. Discharge medications will depend on results of nuclear stress test."
"Ms. ABCD is a 69-year-old lady, who was admitted to the hospital with chest pain and respiratory insufficiency. She has chronic lung disease with bronchospastic angina.We discovered new T-wave abnormalities on her EKG. There was of course a four-vessel bypass surgery in 2001. We did a coronary angiogram. This demonstrated patent vein grafts and patent internal mammary vessel and so there was no obvious new disease.She may continue in the future to have angina and she will have nitroglycerin available for that if needed.Her blood pressure has been elevated and so instead of metoprolol, we have started her on Coreg 6.25 mg b.i.d. This should be increased up to 25 mg b.i.d. as preferred antihypertensive in this lady's case. She also is on an ACE inhibitor.So her discharge meds are as follows:1. Coreg 6.25 mg b.i.d.2. Simvastatin 40 mg nightly.3. Lisinopril 5 mg b.i.d.4. Protonix 40 mg a.m.5. Aspirin 160 mg a day.6. Lasix 20 mg b.i.d.7. Spiriva puff daily.8. Albuterol p.r.n. q.i.d.9. Advair 500/50 puff b.i.d.10. Xopenex q.i.d. and p.r.n.I will see her in a month to six weeks. She is to follow up with Dr. X before that."
"EXAM: CTA chest pulmonary angio.REASON FOR EXAM: Evaluate for pulmonary embolism.TECHNIQUE: Postcontrast CT chest pulmonary embolism protocol, 100 mL of Isovue-300 contrast is utilized.FINDINGS: There are no filling defects in the main or main right or left pulmonary arteries. No central embolism. The proximal subsegmental pulmonary arteries are free of embolus, but the distal subsegmental and segmental arteries especially on the right are limited by extensive pulmonary parenchymal, findings would be discussed in more detail below. There is no evidence of a central embolism.As seen on the prior examination, there is a very large heterogeneous right chest wall mass, which measures at least 10 x 12 cm based on axial image #35. Just superior to the mass is a second heterogeneous focus of neoplasm measuring about 5 x 3.3 cm. Given the short interval time course from the prior exam, dated 01/23/09, this finding has not significantly changed. However, there is considerable change in the appearance of the lung fields. There are now bilateral pleural effusions, small on the right and moderate on the left with associated atelectasis. There are also extensive right lung consolidations, all new or increased significantly from the prior examination. Again identified is a somewhat spiculated region of increased density at the right lung apex, which may indicate fibrosis or scarring, but the possibility of primary or metastatic disease cannot be excluded. There is no pneumothorax in the interval.On the mediastinal windows, there is presumed subcarinal adenopathy, with one lymph node measuring roughly 12 mm suggestive of metastatic disease here. There is aortic root and arch and descending thoracic aortic calcification. There are scattered regions of soft plaque intermixed with this. The heart is not enlarged. The left axilla is intact in regards to adenopathy. The inferior thyroid appears unremarkable.Limited assessment of the upper abdomen discloses a region of lower density within the right hepatic lobe, this finding is indeterminate, and if there is need for additional imaging in regards to hepatic metastatic disease, follow up ultrasound. Spleen, adrenal glands, and upper kidneys appear unremarkable. Visualized portions of the pancreas are unremarkable.There is extensive rib destruction in the region of the chest wall mass. There are changes suggesting prior trauma to the right clavicle.IMPRESSION:1. Again demonstrated is a large right chest wall mass.2. No central embolus, distal subsegmental and segmental pulmonary artery branches are in part obscured by the pulmonary parenchymal findings, are not well assessed.3. New bilateral pleural effusions and extensive increasing consolidations and infiltrates in the right lung.4. See above regarding other findings."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Right hemothorax.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Right hemothorax.PROCEDURE PERFORMED: Insertion of a #32 French chest tube on the right hemithorax.ANESTHESIA: 1% Lidocaine and sedation.INDICATIONS FOR PROCEDURE: This is a 54-year-old female with a newly diagnosed carcinoma of the cervix. The patient is to have an Infuse-A-Port insertion today. Postoperatively from that, she started having a blood tinged pink frothy sputum. Chest x-ray was obtained and showed evidence of a hemothorax on the right hand side, opposite side of the Infuse-A-Port and a wider mediastinum. The decision was made to place a chest tube in the right hemithorax to allow for the patient to be stable for transfer out of the operating room.DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: The area was prepped and draped in the sterile fashion. The area was anesthetized with 1% Lidocaine solution. The patient was given sedation. A #10 blade scalpel was used to make an incision approximately 1.5 cm long. Then a curved scissor was used to dissect down to the level of the rib. A blunt peon was then used to again enter into the right hemithorax. Immediately a blood tinged effusion was released. The chest tube was placed and directed in a posterior and superior direction. The chest tube was hooked up to the Pleur-evac device which was ________ tip suction. The chest tube was tied in with a #0 silk suture in a U-stitch fashion. It was sutured in place with sterile dressing and silk tape. The patient tolerated this procedure well. We will obtain a chest x-ray in postop to ensure proper placement and continue to follow the patient very closely."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:1. Right spontaneous pneumothorax secondary to barometric trauma.2. Respiratory failure.3. Pneumonia with sepsis.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:1. Right spontaneous pneumothorax secondary to barometric trauma.2. Respiratory failure.3. Pneumonia with sepsis.INFORMED CONSENT: Not obtained. This patient is obtunded, intubated, and septic. This is an emergent procedure with 2-physician emergency consent signed and on the chart.PROCEDURE: The patient's right chest was prepped and draped in sterile fashion. The site of insertion was anesthetized with 1% Xylocaine, and an incision was made. Blunt dissection was carried out 2 intercostal spaces above the initial incision site. The chest wall was opened, and a 32-French chest tube was placed into the thoracic cavity, after examination with the finger, making sure that the thoracic cavity had been entered correctly. The chest tube was placed.A postoperative chest x-ray is pending at this time.The patient tolerated the procedure well and was taken to the recovery room in stable condition.ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: 10 mLCOMPLICATIONS: None.SPONGE COUNT: Correct x2."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Left pleural effusion, parapneumonic, loculated.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Left pleural effusion, parapneumonic, loculated.OPERATION: Left chest tube placement.IV SEDATION: 5 mg of Versed total given under pulse ox monitoring, 1% lidocaine local infiltration.PROCEDURE: With the patient semi recumbent and supine the left anterolateral chest was prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion. A 1% lidocaine was liberally infiltrated into the skin, subcutaneous tissue, deep fascia and the anterior axillary line just below the level of the nipple. The incision was made and deepened through the different layers to reach the intercostal space. The pleura was entered on top of the underlying rib and finger digital palpation was performed. Multiple loculations were encountered. Break up of loculations was performed posteriorly and a chest tube was directed posteriorly. Only a small amount of fluid was noted to come out initially. This was sent for various studies. Soft adhesions were encountered. The plan was to obtain a chest x-ray and start Activase installation."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Bilateral pleural effusion.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Bilateral pleural effusion.PROCEDURE PERFORMED: Removal of bilateral #32-French chest tubes with closure of wound.COMPLICATIONS: None.INDICATIONS FOR PROCEDURE: The patient is a 66-year-old African-American male who has been in the intensive care unit for over a month with bilateral chest tubes for chronic draining pleural effusions with serous drainage. A decision was made to proceed with removal of these chest tubes and because of the fistulous tracts, this necessitated to close the wounds with sutures. The patient was agreeable to proceed.OPERATIVE PROCEDURE: The patient was prepped and draped at the bedside over both chest tube sites. The pressures applied over the sites and the skin was closed with interrupted #3-0 Ethilon sutures. The skin was then cleansed and Vaseline occlusive dressing was applied over the sites. The same procedure was performed on the other side. The chest tubes were removed on full inspiration. Vital signs remained stable throughout the procedure. The patient will remain in the intensive care unit for continued monitoring."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Left chest wall tumor, spindle cell histology.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Left chest wall tumor, spindle cell histology with pathology pending.PROCEDURE: Resection of left chest wall tumor, partial resection of left diaphragm, left lower lobe lung wedge resection, left chest wall reconstruction with Gore-Tex mesh.ANESTHESIA: General endotracheal.SPECIMEN: Left chest wall with tumor and left lower lobe lung wedge resection to pathology.INDICATIONS FOR PROCEDURE: The patient is a 79-year-old male who began to experience back pain approximately 2 years ago, which increased. Chest x-ray and CT scan revealed a 3 cm x 4 cm mass abutting the left chest wall inferior to the left scapula with pleural thickening. A biopsy was performed at an outside hospital (Kaiser) and pathology was consistent with mesothelioma. The patient had a metastatic workup, which was negative including a brain MRI and bone scan. The bone scan showed only signal positivity in the left 9th rib near the tumor. The patient has a significant past medical history consisting of coronary artery disease, hypertension, non-insulin dependent diabetes, longstanding atrial fibrillation, anemia, and hypercholesterolemia. He and his family were apprised of the high-risk nature of this surgery preoperatively and informed consent was obtained.PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: The patient was brought to the operating room and placed in the supine position. The patient was intubated with a double-lumen endotracheal tube. Intravenous antibiotics were given. A Foley catheter was placed. The patient was placed in the right lateral decubitus position and the left chest was prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion. An incision approximately 8 inches long was made centered over the mass and extending slightly obliquely over the mass. The skin and subcutaneous tissues were dissected sharply with the electrocautery. Good hemostasis was obtained. The tumor was easily palpable and clearly involving the 8th to 9th rib. A thoracotomy was initially made above the mass in approximately the 7th intercostal space. Inspection of the pleural cavity revealed multiple adhesions, which were taken down with a combination of blunt and sharp dissection. The thoracotomy was extended anteriorly and posteriorly. It was clear that in order to obtain an adequate resection of the tumor, approximately 4 rib segment of the chest wall would need to be resected. The ribs of the chest wall were first cut at their anterior aspect. The ribs 7, 8, 9, and 10 were serially transected after the interspaces were dissected with electrocautery. Hemostasis was obtained with both electrocautery and clips. The chest wall segment to be resected was retracted laterally and posteriorly. It was clear that there were at least 2 areas where the tumor was invading the lung and a lengthy area of diaphragmatic involvement. Inferiorly, the diaphragm was divided to provide a margin of at least 1 to 2 cm around the areas of tumor. The spleen and the stomach were identified and were protected. Inferiorly, the resection of the chest wall was continued in the 10th interspace. The dissection was then carried posteriorly to the level of the spine. The left lung at this point was further dissected out and multiple firings of the GIA 75 were used to perform a wedge resection of the left lower lobe, which provided a complete resection of all palpable and visible tumor in the lung. A 2-0 silk tie was used to ligate the last remaining corner of lung parenchyma at the corner of the wedge resection. Posteriorly, the chest wall segment was noted to have an area at the level of approximately T8 and T9, where the tumor involved the vertebral bodies. The ribs were disarticulated, closed to or at their articulations with the spine. Bleeding from the intercostal vessels was controlled with a combination of clips and electrocautery. There was no disease grossly involving or encasing the aorta.The posterior transection of the ribs was completed and the specimen was passed off of the field as a specimen to pathology for permanent section. The specimen was oriented for the pathologist who came to the room. Hemostasis was obtained. The vent in the diaphragm was then closed primarily with a series of figure-of-8 #1 Ethibond sutures. This produced a satisfactory diaphragmatic repair without undue tension. A single 32-French chest tube was placed in the pleural cavity exiting the left hemithorax anteriorly. This was secured with a #1 silk suture. The Gore-Tex mesh was brought on to the field and was noted to be of adequate size to patch the resulting chest wall defect. A series of #1 Prolene were placed in an interrupted horizontal mattress fashion circumferentially and tied down individually. The resulting mesh closure was snug and deemed adequate. The serratus muscle was reapproximated with figure-of-8 0 Vicryl. The latissimus was reapproximated with a two #1 Vicryl placed in running fashion. Of note, two #10 JP drains were placed over the mesh repair of the chest wall. The subcutaneous tissues were closed with a running 3-0 Vicryl suture and the skin was closed with a 4-0 Monocryl. The wounds were dressed. The patient was brought from the operating room directly to the North ICU, intubated in stable condition. All counts were correct."
"REASON FOR VISIT: This is a routine return appointment for this 71-year-old woman with chronic atrial fibrillation. Her chief complaint today is shortness of breath.HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: I last saw her in 09/2008. Since then, she has been admitted to ABCD Hospital from 11/05/2008 through 11/08/2008 for a near syncopal episode. She was found to have a fast heart rate in the atrial fibrillation. She was also found to be in heart failure and so they diuresed her. They wanted to send her home on furosemide 40 mg daily, but unfortunately they never gave her a prescription for this and so she now is not on any furosemide and since being discharged she has regained fluid to no one's great surprise. My plan advent is to control her heart rate. This has been a bit difficult with her retaining fluid. We will try again to diurese her as an outpatient and go forward from there with rate control and anticoagulation. She may need to have a pacemaker placed and her AV node ablated if this does not work.She notes the shortness of breath and wheezing at nights. I think these are manifestations of heart failure. She has peripheral edema. She is short of breath when she tries to walk a city block. I believe she takes her medications as directed, but I am never sure she actually is taking them correctly. In any case, she did not bring her medications with her today.Today, she had an ECG which shows atrial fibrillation with a ventricular response of 117 beats per minute. There is a nonspecific IVCD. This is unchanged from her last visit except that her heart rate is faster. In addition, I reviewed her echocardiogram done at XYZ. Her ejection fraction is 50% and she has paradoxical septal motion. Her right ventricular systolic pressure is normal. There are no significant valvular abnormalities.MEDICATIONS: 1. Fosamax - 70 mg weekly.2. Lisinopril - 20 mg daily.3. Metformin - 850 mg daily.4. Amlodipine - 5 mg daily.5. Metoprolol - 150 mg twice daily.6. Warfarin - 5 mg daily.7. Furosemide - none.8. Potassium - none.9. Magnesium oxide - 200 mg daily.ALLERGIES: Denied.MAJOR FINDINGS: On my comprehensive cardiovascular examination, she again looks the same which is in heart failure. Her blood pressure today was 130/60 and her pulse 116 blood pressure and regular. She is 5 feet 11 inches and her weight is 167 pounds, which is up from 158 pounds from when I saw her last visit. She is breathing 1two times per minute and it is unlabored. Eyelids are normal. She has vitiligo. Pupils are round and reactive to light. Conjunctivae are clear and sclerae are anicteric. There is no oral thrush or central cyanosis. She has marked keloid formation on both sides of her neck, the left being worse than the right. The jugular venous pressure is elevated. Carotids are brisk are without bruits. Lungs are clear to auscultation and percussion. The precordium is quiet. The rhythm is irregularly irregular. She has a variable first and second heart sounds. No murmurs today. Abdomen is soft without hepatosplenomegaly or masses, although she does have hepatojugular reflux. She has no clubbing or cyanosis, but does have 1+ peripheral edema. Distal pulses are good. On neurological examination, her mentation is normal. Her mood and affect are normal. She is oriented to person, place, and time.ASSESSMENTS: She has chronic atrial fibrillation and heart failure now.PROBLEMS DIAGNOSES: 1. Chronic atrial fibrillation, anticoagulated and the plan is rate control.2. Heart failure and she needs more diuretic.3. High blood pressure controlled.4. Hyperlipidemia.5. Diabetes mellitus type 2.6. Nonspecific intraventricular conduction delay.7. History of alcohol abuse.8. Osteoporosis.9. Normal left ventricular function.PROCEDURES AND IMMUNIZATIONS: None today.PLANS: I have restarted her Lasix at 80 mg daily and I have asked her to return in about 10 days to the heart failure clinic. There, I would like them to recheck her heart rate and if still elevated, and she is truly on 150 mg of metoprolol twice a day, one could switch her amlodipine from 5 mg daily to diltiazem 120 mg daily. If this does not work, in terms of controlling her heart rate, then she will need to have a pacemaker and her AV node ablated.Thank you for asking me to participate in her care.MEDICATION CHANGES: See the above."
"PROCEDURES UNDERTAKEN1. Left coronary system cineangiography.2. Right coronary system cineangiography.3. Cineangiography of SVG to OM.4. Cineangiography of LIMA to LAD.5. Left ventriculogram.6. Aortogram.7. Percutaneous intervention of the left circumflex and obtuse marginal branch with plano balloon angioplasty unable to pass stent.NARRATIVE: After all risks and benefits were explained to the patient, informed consent was obtained. The patient was brought to the cardiac catheterization suite. The right groin was prepped in the usual sterile fashion. Right common femoral artery was cannulated using a modified Seldinger technique and a long 6-French AO sheath was introduced secondary to tortuous aorta. Next, Judkins left catheter was used to engage the left coronary system. Cineangiography was recorded in multiple views. Next, Judkins right catheter was used to engage the right coronary system. Cineangiography was recorded in multiple views. Next, the Judkins right catheter was used to engage the SVG to OM. Cineangiography was recorded. Next, the Judkins right was advanced into the left subclavian and exchanged over a long exchange length J-wire for a 4-French left internal mammary artery which was used to engage the LIMA graft to LAD and cineangiography was recorded in multiple views. Next, an angled pigtail catheter was advanced into the left ventricular cavity. LV pressures were measured. LV gram was done and a pullback gradient across the aortic valve was done and recorded. Next, an aortogram was done and recorded. At this point, I decided to proceed with percutaneous intervention of the left circumflex. Therefore, AVA 3.5 guide was used to engage the left coronary artery. Angiomax bolus and drip was started. Universal wire was advanced past the lesion and a 2.5-balloon was advanced first to the proximal lesions and predilations were done at 14 atmospheres and then to the distal lesion and predilatation was done at 12 atmospheres. Next, we attempted to advance a 3.0 x 12 stent to the distal lesion; however, we were unable to pass the stent. Next, second dilatations were done again with the 2.5 balloon at 18 atmospheres; however, we are unable to break the lesion. We next attempted a cutting balloon. Again, we are unable to cross the lesion, therefore a buddy wire technique was used with a PT choice support wire. Again, we were unable to cross the lesion with the stent. We then try to cross with a noncompliant balloon, which we were unsuccessful. We also try to cutting balloon again, we were unsuccessful. Despite multiple dilatations, we were unable to cross anything beyond the noncompliant balloon across the lesion; therefore, finally the procedure was aborted. Final images showed no evidence of dissection, perforation, or further complication. The right groin was filled after taking an image to confirm sheath placement above the bifurcation with excellent results. The patient tolerated the procedure very well without complications, was taken off the operating table and transferred back to cardiac telemetry floor.DIAGNOSTIC FINDINGS1. The LV. LVEDP was 4. LVES is approximately 50%-55% with inferobasal hypokinesis. No significant MR. No gradient across the aortic valve.2. Aortogram. The ascending aorta shows no significant dilatation or evidence of dissection. The valve shows no significant aortic insufficiencies. The abdominal aorta and distal aorta shows significant tortuosities.3. The left main. The left main coronary artery is a large caliber vessel, bifurcating the LAD and left circumflex with some mild distal disease of about 10%-20%.4. Left circumflex. The left circumflex vessel is a large caliber vessel gives off a distal branching obtuse marginal branch. The upper pole of the OM shows retrograde filling of the distal graft and also at that point approximately a 70%-80% stenosis. The mid left circumflex is a high-grade 80% diffuse tortuous stenosis.5. LAD. The LAD is a totally 100% occluded vessel. The LIMA to LAD is patent with only a small-to-moderate caliber LAD. There is a large diagonal branch coming off the proximal portion of the LAD and that proximal LAD showed some diffuse disease upwards of 60%-70%. The diagonal shows proximal 80% stenosis.6. The right coronary artery: The right coronary artery is 100% occluded. There are retrograde collaterals from left to right to the distal PDA and PLV branches. The SVG to OM is 100% occluded at its take off. The SVG to PDA is not found; however, presumed 100% occluded given that there is collateral flow to the distal right.7. LIMA to LAD is widely patent.ASSESSMENT AND PLAN: Attempted intervention to the left circumflex system, only able to perform plano balloon angioplasty, unable to pass stents, noncompliant balloons or cutting balloon. Final images showed some improvement, however, continued residual stenosis. At this point, the patient will be transferred back to telemetry floor and monitored. We can attempt future intervention or continue aggressive medical management. The patient continues to have residual stenosis in the diagonal; however, due to the length of this procedure, I did not attempt intervention to that diagonal branch. Possible consideration would be a stress test as an outpatient depending on where patient shows ischemia, focus on treatment to that lesion."
"(Medical Transcription Sample Report)REASON FOR CATHETERIZATION: ST-elevation myocardial infarction.PROCEDURES UNDERTAKEN1. Left coronary system cineangiography.2. Right coronary system cineangiography.3. Left ventriculogram.4. PCI to the left circumflex with a 3.5 x 12 and a 3.5 x 8 mm Vision bare-metal stents postdilated with a 3.75-mm noncompliant balloon x2.PROCEDURE: After all risks and benefits were explained to the patient, informed consent was obtained. The patient was brought to the cardiac cath suite. Right groin was prepped in usual sterile fashion. Right common femoral artery was cannulated with the modified Seldinger technique. A 6-French sheath was introduced. Next, Judkins right catheter was used to engage the right coronary artery and cineangiography was recorded in multiple views. Next, an EBU 3.5 guide was used to engage the left coronary system. Cineangiography was recorded in several views and it was noted to have a 99% proximal left circumflex stenosis. Angiomax bolus and drip were started after checking an ACT, which was 180, and an Universal wire was advanced through the left circumflex beyond the lesion. Next, a 3.0 x 12 mm balloon was used to pre-dilate the lesion. Next a 3.5 x 12 mm Vision bare-metal stent was advanced to the area of stenosis and deployed at 12 atmospheres. There was noted to be a plaque shift proximally at the edge of the stent. Therefore, a 3.5 x 8 mm Vision bare-metal stent was advanced to cover the proximal margin of the first stent and deployed at 12 atmospheres. Next, a 3.75 x 13 mm noncompliant balloon was advanced into the margin of the stent and two inflations at 20 atmospheres were done for 20 seconds. Final images showed excellent results with initial 99% stenosis reduced to 0%. The patient continues to have residual stenosis in the mid to distal in the OM branch. At this point, wire was removed. Final images confirmed initial stent results, no evidence of dissection, perforation, or complications.Next, an angled pigtail catheter was advanced into the left ventricular cavity. LV pressure was measured. LV gram was done in both the LAO and RAO projections and a pullback gradient across the aortic valve was done and recorded. Finally, all guides were removed. Right femoral artery access site was imaged and Angio-Seal deployed to attain excellent hemostasis. The patient tolerated the procedure very well without complications.DIAGNOSTIC FINDINGS1. Left main: Left main is a large-caliber vessel bifurcating in LAD and left circumflex with no significant disease.2. The LAD: LAD is a large-caliber vessel, wraps around the apex, gives off multiple septal perforators, three small-to-medium caliber diagonal branches without any significant disease.3. Left circumflex: Left circumflex is a large-caliber vessel, gives off a large distal PDA branch, has a 99% proximal lesion, 50% mid vessel lesion, and a 50% lesion in the OM, which is a distal branch.4. Right coronary artery: Right coronary artery is a moderate-caliber vessel, dominant, bifurcates into PDA and PLV branches, has only mild disease. Otherwise, no significant stenosis noted.5. LV: The LVEF 50%. Inferolateral wall hypokinesis. No significant mitral regurgitation. No gradient across the aortic valve on pullback.ASSESSMENT AND PLAN: ST-elevation myocardial infarction with a 99% stenosis of the proximal portion of the left circumflex treated with a 3.5 x 12 mm Vision bare-metal stent and a 3.5 x 8 mm Vision bare-metal stent. Excellent results, 0% residual stenosis. The patient continues to have some residual 50% stenosis in the left circumflex system, some mild disease throughout the other vessels. Therefore, we will aggressively treat this patient medically with close followup as an outpatient."
"HISTORY: The patient is a 4-month-old who presented with respiratory distress and absent femoral pulses with subsequent evaluation including echocardiogram that demonstrated severe coarctation of the aorta with a peak gradient of 29 mmHg and associated dilated cardiomyopathy with fractional shortening of 16%. A bicuspid aortic valve was also seen without insufficiency or stenosis. The patient underwent cardiac catheterization for balloon angioplasty for coarctation of the aorta.PROCEDURE: After sedation and general endotracheal anesthesia, the patient was prepped and draped. Cardiac catheterization was performed as outlined in the attached continuation sheets. Vascular entry was by percutaneous technique, and the patient was heparinized. Monitoring during the procedure included continuous surface ECG, continuous pulse oximetry, and cycled cuff blood pressures, in addition to intravascular pressures.Using a percutaneous technique a 4-French 8 cm long double lumen central venous catheter was inserted in the left femoral vein and sutured into place. There was good blood return from both the ports.Using a 4-French sheath a 4-French wedge catheter was inserted into the right femoral vein and advanced through the right heart structures out to the branch of pulmonary arteries. The atrial septum was not probe patent.Using a 4-French sheath a 4-French marker pigtail catheter was inserted into the left femoral artery and advanced retrograde to the descending aorta ,ascending aorta and left ventricle. A descending aortogram demonstrated discrete coarctation of the aorta approximately 8 mm distal to the origin of the left subclavian artery. The transverse arch measured 5 mm. Isthmus measured 4.7 mm and coarctation measured 2.9 x 1.8 mm at the descending aorta level. The diaphragm measured 5.6 mm. The pigtail catheter was exchanged for a wedge catheter, which was then directed into the right innominate artery. This catheter was exchanged over a wire for a Tyshak mini 6 x 2 cm balloon catheter which was advanced across the coarctation and inflated with complete disappearance of discrete waist. Pressure pull-back following angioplasty, however, demonstrated a residual of 15-20 mmHg gradient. Repeat angiogram showed mild improvement in degree of aortic narrowing. The angioplasty was then performed using a Tyshak mini 7 x 2 cm balloon catheter with complete disappearance of mild waist. The pigtail catheter was then reintroduced for a pressure pull-back measurement and final angiogram.Flows were calculated by the Fick technique using an assumed oxygen consumption.Cineangiograms were obtained with injection in the descending aorta.After angiography, two normal-appearing renal collecting systems were visualized. The catheters and sheaths were removed and topical pressure applied for hemostasis. The patient was returned to the pediatric intensive care unit in satisfactory condition. There were no complications.DISCUSSION: Oxygen consumption was assumed to be normal. Mixed venous saturation was low due to mild systemic arterial desaturation and anemia. There is no evidence of significant intracardiac shunt. Further the heart was desaturated due to VQ mismatch.Phasic right-sided pressures were normal as was the right pulmonary artery capillary wedge pressure with the A-wave similar to the normal left ventricular end-diastolic pressure of 12 mmHg. Left ventricular systolic pressure was mildly increased with a 60 mmHg systolic gradient into the ascending aorta and a 29 mmHg systolic gradient on pressure pull-back to the descending aorta. The calculated flows were mildly increased. Vascular resistances were normal. A cineangiogram with contrast injection in the descending aorta showed a normal left aortic arch with normal origins of the brachiocephalic vessels. There is discrete juxtaductal coarctation of the aorta. Flow within the intercostal arteries was retrograde. Following balloon angioplasty of coarctation of the aorta, there was slight fall in the mixed venous saturation and an increase in systemic arterial saturation as the fall in left ventricular systolic pressure from 99 mmHg to 92 mmHg. There remained a 4 mmHg systolic gradient into the ascending aorta and 9 mmHg systolic gradient pressure pull-back to the descending aorta. The calculated systemic flow fell to normal values. Final angiogram with injection in the descending aorta demonstrated improved caliber of coarctation of the aorta with mild intimal irregularity and a small left lateral filling defect consistent with a small intimal tear in the region of the ductus arteriosus. There is brisk flow in the descending aorta and appropriate flow in the intercostal arteries. The narrowest diameter of the aorta measured 4.9 x 4.2 mm.DIAGNOSES: 1. Juxtaductal coarctation of the aorta.2. Dilated cardiomyopathy.3. Bicuspid aortic valve.4. Patent foramen ovale.INTERVENTION: Balloon dilation of coarctation of the aorta.MANAGEMENT: The case will be discussed at combined Cardiology and Cardiothoracic Surgery Case Conference. The patient will be allowed to recover from the current intervention with the hopes of complete left ventricular function recovery. The patient will undoubtedly require formal coarctation of the aorta repair surgically in 4-6 months. The further cardiologic care will be directed by Dr. X."
"HISTORY: The patient is a 10-1/2-year-old born with asplenia syndrome with a complex cyanotic congenital heart disease characterized by dextrocardia bilateral superior vena cava, complete atrioventricular septal defect, a total anomalous pulmonary venous return to the right-sided atrium, and double-outlet to the right ventricle with malposed great vessels, the aorta being anterior with a severe pulmonary stenosis. He had undergone staged repair beginning on 04/21/1997 with a right modified Blalock-Taussig shunt followed on 09/02/1999 with a bilateral bidirectional Glenn shunt, and left pulmonary artery to main pulmonary artery pericardial patch augmentation. These procedures were performed at Medical College Hospital. Family states that they moved to the United States. Evaluation at the Children's Hospital earlier this year demonstrated complete occlusion of the right bidirectional Glenn shunt as well as occlusion of the proximal right pulmonary artery. He was also found to have elevated Glenn pressures at 22 mmHg, transpulmonary gradient axis of 14 mmHg. The QP:QS ratio of 0.6:1. A large decompressing venous collateral was also appreciated. The patient was brought back to cardiac catheterization in an attempt to reconstitute the right caval pulmonary anastomosis and to occlude the venous collateral vessel.DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: After sedation and local Xylocaine anesthesia, the patient was prepped and draped. Cardiac catheterization was performed as outlined in the attached continuation sheets. Vascular entry was by percutaneous technique, and the patient was heparinized. Monitoring during the procedure included continuous surface ECG, continuous pulse oximetry, and cycled cuff blood pressures, in addition to intravascular pressures.Using a 6-French sheath, a 6-French wedge catheter was inserted in the right femoral vein and advanced from the inferior vena cava into the right-sided atrium pulmonary veins and the right ventricle.Using a 6-French sheath, a 5-French pigtail catheter was inserted into the right femoral artery and advanced retrograde to the descending aorta and ascending aorta. A separate port of arterial access was obtained in the left femoral artery utilizing a 5-French sheath.Percutaneous access into the right jugular vein was attempted, but unsuccessful. Ultrasound on the right neck demonstrated a complete thrombosis of the right internal jugular vein. Using percutaneous technique and a 5-French sheath, 5-French wedge catheter was inserted into the left internal jugular vein and advanced along the left superior vena cava across the left caval-pulmonary anastomosis into the main pulmonary artery and left pulmonary artery with aid of guidewire. This catheter then also advanced into the bridging innominate vein. The catheter was then exchanged over wire for a 4-French Bernstein catheter, which was advanced to the blind end of the right superior vena cava. A balloon wedge angiogram of the right lower pulmonary vein demonstrated back filling of a small right lower pulmonary artery. There was no vascular continuity to the stump of the right Glenn. The jugular venous catheter and sheaths were exchanged over a wire for a 6-French flexor sheath, which was advanced to the proximal right superior vena cava. The Bernstein catheter was then reintroduced using a Terumo guidewire. Probing of the superior vena cava facilitated access into the right lower pulmonary artery. The angiogram in the right pulmonary artery showed a diminutive right lower pulmonary artery and severe long segment proximal stenosis. The distal pulmonary measured approximately 5.5 to 60 mm in diameter with a long segment stenosis measuring approximately 31 mm in length. The length of the obstruction was balloon dilated using ultra-thin SD 4 x 2 cm balloon catheter with complete disappearance of the waist. This facilitated advancement of a flexor sheath into the proximal portion of the stenosis. A PG 2960 BPX Genesis stent premounted on a 6 mm OptiProbe. A balloon catheter was advanced across the area of narrowing and inflated with a near-complete disappearance of proximal waist. Angiogram demonstrated a good stent apposition to the caval wall. Further angioplasty was then performed utilizing an ultra-thin SDS 8 x 3 cm balloon catheter inflated to 19 atmospheres pressure with complete disappearance of a distinct proximal waist. Angiogram demonstrated wide patency of reconstituted right caval pulmonary anastomosis though there was no flow seen to the right upper pulmonary artery. The balloon wedge angiograms were then obtained in the right upper pulmonary veins suggesting the presence of right upper pulmonary artery and not contiguous with the right lower pulmonary artery. Bernstein catheter was advanced into the main pulmonary artery where a wire probing of the stump of the proximal right pulmonary artery facilitated access to the right upper pulmonary artery. Angiogram demonstrated severe long segment stenosis of the proximal right pulmonary artery. Angioplasty of the right pulmonary was then performed using the OptiProbe 6-mm balloon catheter inflated to 16 atmospheres pressure with disappearance of a distinct waist. Repeat angiogram showed improvement in caliber of right upper pulmonary artery with filling defect of the proximal right pulmonary artery. The proximal right pulmonary artery was then dilated and stent implanted using a PG 2980 BPX Genesis stent premounted on 8-mm OptiProbe balloon catheter and implanted with complete disappearance of the waist. Distal right upper pulmonary artery was then dilated and stent implanted utilizing a PG 1870 BPX Genesis stent premounted on 7-mm OptiProbe balloon catheter. Repeat angiograms were then performed. Attention was then directed to the large venous collateral vessel arising from the left superior vena cava with a contrast filling of a left-sided azygos vein. A selective angiogram demonstrated a large azygos vein of the midsection measuring approximately 9.4 mm in diameter. An Amplatzer 12 mm vascular plug was loaded on the delivery catheter and advanced through the flexor sheath into the azygos vein. Once stable device was confirmed, the device was released from the delivery catheter. The 4-French Bernstein catheter was then reintroduced and 5 inch empirical 0.038 inch, 10 cm x 8 mm detachable coils were then implanted above the vascular plug filling the proximal azygos vein. A pigtail catheter was then introduced into the left superior vena cava for final angiogram.Flows were calculated by the Fick technique using an assumed oxygen consumption and contents derived from Radiometer Hemoximeter saturations and hemoglobin capacity.Cineangiograms were obtained with injection of the coronary sinus of pulmonary veins, the innominate vein, superior vena cava, the main pulmonary artery, and azygos vein.After angiography, two normal-appearing renal collecting systems were visualized. The catheters and sheaths were removed and topical pressure applied for hemostasis. The patient was returned to the recovery room in satisfactory condition. There were no complications.DISCUSSION: Oxygen consumption was assumed to be normal mixed venous saturation, but was low due to systemic arterial desaturation of 79%. The pulmonary veins were fully saturated with partial pressure of oxygen ranging between 120 and 169 mmHg in 30% oxygen. Remaining saturations reflected complete admixture. There was increased saturation in the left pulmonary artery due to aortopulmonary collateral flow. Phasic right atrial pressures were normal with an A-wave somewhat to the normal right ventricular end-diastolic pressure of 9 mmHg. Left ventricular systolic pressure was systemic with no outflow obstruction to the ascending aorta. Phasic ascending, descending pressures were similar and normal. Mean Glenn pressures at initiation of the case were slightly elevated at 14 mmHg with a transpulmonary gradient of 9 mmHg. The calculated systemic flow was a normal pulmonary flows reduced with a QP:QS ratio of 0.6:1. The pulmonary vascular resistance was elevated at 4.4 Woods units. Following stent implantation in the right caval pulmonary anastomosis and right pulmonary artery, there was a slight increase in the Glenn venous pressures to 16 mmHg. Following embolization of the azygos vein, there was increase in systemic arterial saturation to 84% and increase in mixed venous saturation. There was similar increase in Glenn pressures to 28 mmHg with a transpulmonary gradient of 14 mmHg. There was an increase in arterial pressure. The calculated systemic flow increased from 3.1 liters /minute/meter squared to 4.3 liters/minute/meter squared. Angiogram within the innominate vein following stent implantation demonstrated appropriate stent position without significant distortion of the innominate vein or proximal cava. There appeared unobstructed contrast flow to the right lower pulmonary artery of a 1-mmHg mean pressure gradient. There was absence of contrast filling of the right middle and right upper pulmonary artery. Final angiogram with a contrast injection in the left superior vena cava showed a forward flow through the right Glenn, a good contrast filling of the right lower pulmonary artery, and a widely patent left Glenn negative contrast washout of the proximal right pulmonary artery and left pulmonary artery presumably due to aortopulmonary collateral flow. Contrast injection within the right upper pulmonary artery following the stent implantation demonstrated widely patent proximal right pulmonary artery along the length of the implanted stents though with retrograde contrast flow.INITIAL DIAGNOSES: 1. Asplenia syndrome.2. Dextrocardia bilateral superior vena cava.3. Atrioventricular septal defect.4. Total anomalous pulmonary venous return to the right-sided atrium.5. Double outlet right ventricle with malposed great vessels.6. Severe pulmonary stenosis.7. Separate hepatic venous drainage into the atria.PRIOR SURGERIES AND INTERVENTIONS: 1. Right modified Blalock-Taussig shunt.2. Bilateral bidirectional Glenn shunt.3. Patch augmentation of the main pulmonary to left pulmonary artery.CURRENT DIAGNOSES: 1. Obstructed right caval pulmonary anastomosis.2. Obstructed right proximal pulmonary artery.3. Venovenous collateral vessel.CURRENT INTERVENTION: 1. Balloon dilation of the right superior vena cava and stent implantation.2. Balloon dilation of the proximal right pulmonary artery, stent implantation.3. Embolization of venovenous collateral vessel.MANAGEMENT: The case will be discussed in Combined Cardiology Cardiothoracic Surgery case conference. A repeat catheterization is recommended in 3 months to assess for right pulmonary artery growth and to assess candidacy for Fontan completion. The patient will be maintained on anticoagulant medications of aspirin and Plavix. Further cardiology care will be directed by Dr. X."
"REASON FOR CONSULTATION: Abnormal EKG and rapid heart rate.HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is an 86-year-old female. From the last few days, she is not feeling well, fatigue, tiredness, weakness, nausea, no vomiting, no hematemesis or melena. The patient relates to have some low-grade fever. The patient came to the emergency room. Initially showed atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response. It appears that the patient has chronic atrial fibrillation. As per the medications, they are not very clear. Husband has gone out to brief her medications. She denies any specific chest pain. Her main complaint is shortness of breath and symptoms as above.CORONARY RISK FACTORS: No hypertension or diabetes mellitus. Nonsmoker. Cholesterol status is normal. Questionable history of coronary artery disease. Family history noncontributory.FAMILY HISTORY: Nonsignificant.PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Questionable coronary artery bypass surgery versus valve replacement.MEDICATIONS: Unclear at this time, but she does take Coumadin.ALLERGIES: ASPIRIN.PERSONAL HISTORY: She is married, nonsmoker. Does not consume alcohol. No history of recreational drug use.PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Symptoms as above, atrial fibrillation, history of open heart surgery, possible bypass surgery; however, after further query, husband relates that she may had just a valve surgery.REVIEW OF SYSTEMSCONSTITUTIONAL: Weakness, fatigue, and tiredness.HEENT: No history of cataract, history of blurry vision and hearing impairment.CARDIOVASCULAR: Irregular heart rhythm with congestive heart failure, questionable coronary artery disease.RESPIRATORY: Shortness of breath, questionable pneumonia. No valley fever.GASTROINTESTINAL: No nausea, no vomiting, hematemesis or melena.UROLOGICAL: No frequency or urgency.MUSCULOSKELETAL: Arthritis, muscle weakness.CNS: No TIA. No CVA. No seizure disorder.SKIN: Nonsignificant.PSYCHOLOGIC: Anxiety and depression.ALLERGIES: Nonsignificant except as mentioned above for medications.PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONVITAL SIGNS: Pulse of 122, blood pressure 148/78, afebrile, and respiratory rate 18 per minute.HEENT AND NECK: Neck is supple. Atraumatic and normocephalic. Neck veins are flat. No thyromegaly.LUNGS: Air entry bilaterally fair. Decreased breath sounds especially in the right basilar areas. Few crackles.HEART: Normal S1 and S2, irregular.ABDOMEN: Soft and nontender.EXTREMITIES: No edema. Pulse is palpable. No clubbing or cyanosis.CNS: Grossly intact.MUSCULOSKELETAL: Arthritic changes.PSYCHOLOGICAL: None significant.DIAGNOSTIC DATA: EKG, atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response, and nonspecific ST-T changes. INR of 4.5, H and H 10 and 30. BUN and creatinine are within normal limits. Chest x-ray confirmed right lower lobe patchy infiltrate, and trace of pneumonia.IMPRESSION:1. The patient is an 86-year-old female who has questionable bypass surgery, questionable valve surgery with a rapid atrial heart rate, chronic atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response, exacerbated by most likely underlying pneumonia by chest x-ray findings.2. Symptoms as above.RECOMMENDATIONS:1. We will start her on a low dose of beta-blocker for rate control and antibiotic for pneumonia. Once, if she is stable, we will consider further cardiac workup.2. We will also obtain an echocardiogram to assess valves such as whether she had a prior valve surgery versus coronary artery bypass surgery.3. Discussed with the patient's husband regarding plan of care, fully understood, and consents for the same. All the questions answered in detail."
"REASON FOR CONSULTATION: Atrial fibrillation.HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 78-year-old, Hispanic woman with past medical history significant for coronary artery disease status post bypass grafting surgery and history of a stroke with residual left sided hemiplegia. Apparently, the patient is a resident of Lake Harris Port Square long-term facility after her stroke. She was found to have confusion while in her facility. She then came to the emergency room and found to have a right sided acute stroke. 12-lead EKG performed on August 10, 2009, found to have atrial fibrillation. Telemetry also revealed atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response. Currently, the telemetry is normal sinus rhythm. Because of the finding of atrial fibrillation, cardiology was consulted.The patient is a poor historian. She did not recall why she is in the hospital, she said she had a stroke. She reported no chest discomfort, no shortness of breath, no palpitations.The following information was obtained from the patient's chart:PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:1. Coronary artery disease status post bypass grafting surgery. Unable to obtain the place, location, anatomy, and the year it was performed.2. Carotid artery stenosis status post right carotid artery stenting. Again, the time was unknown.3. Diabetes.4. Hypertension.5. Hyperlipidemia.6. History of stroke with left side hemiplegia.ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies.FAMILY HISTORY: Noncontributory.SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient is a resident of Lake Harris Port Square. She has no history of alcohol use.CURRENT MEDICATIONS: Please see attached list including hydralazine, Celebrex, Colace, metformin, aspirin, potassium, Lasix, Levaquin, Norvasc, insulin, Plavix, lisinopril, and Zocor.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Unable to obtain.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:VITAL SIGNS: Blood pressure 133/44, pulse 98, O2 saturation is 98% on room air. Temperature 99, respiratory rate 16.GENERAL: The patient is sitting in the chair at bedside. Appears comfortable. Left facial droop. Left side hemiplegia.HEAD AND NECK: No JVP seen. Right side carotid bruit heard.CHEST: Clear to auscultation bilaterally.CARDIOVASCULAR: PMI not displaced, regular rhythm. Normal S1 and S2. Positive S4. There is a 2/6 systolic murmur best heard at the left lower sternal border.ABDOMEN: Soft.EXTREMITIES: Not edematous.DATA: A 12-lead EKG performed on August 9, 2009, revealed atrial fibrillation with a ventricular rate of 96 beats per minute, nonspecific ST wave abnormality.Review of telemetry done the last few days, currently the patient is in normal sinus rhythm at the rate of 60 beats per minute. Atrial fibrillation was noted on admission noted August 8 and August 10; however, there was normal sinus rhythm on August 10.LABORATORY DATA: WBC 7.2, hemoglobin 11.7. The patient's hemoglobin was 8.2 a few days ago before blood transfusion. Chemistry-7 within normal limits. Lipid profile: Triglycerides 64, total cholesterol 106, HDL 26, LDL 17. Liver function tests are within normal limits. INR was 1.1.A 2D echo was performed on August 11, 2009, and revealed left ventricle normal in size with EF of 50%. Mild apical hypokinesis. Mild dilated left atrium. Mild aortic regurgitation, mitral regurgitation, and tricuspid regurgitation. No intracardiac masses or thrombus were noted. The aortic root was normal in size.ASSESSMENT AND RECOMMENDATIONS:1. Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. It is unknown if this is a new onset versus a paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. Given the patient has a recurrent stroke, anticoagulation with Coumadin to prevent further stroke is indicated. However, given the patient's current neurologic status, the safety of falling is unclear. We need to further discuss with the patient's primary care physician, probably rehab physician. If the patient's risk of falling is low, then Coumadin is indicated. However, if the patient's risk for falling is high, then a course using aspirin and Plavix will be recommended. Transesophageal echocardiogram probably will delineate possible intracardiac thrombus better, however will not change our current management. Therefore, I will not recommend transesophageal echocardiogram at this point. Currently, the patient's heart rate is well controlled, antiarrhythmic agent is not recommended at this point.2. Carotid artery stenosis. The patient underwent a carotid Doppler ultrasound on this admission and found to have a high-grade increased velocity of the right internal carotid artery. It is difficult to assess the severity of the stenosis given the history of possible right carotid stenting. If clinically indicated, CT angio of the carotid will be indicated to assess for stent patency. However, given the patient's current acute stroke, revascularization is not indicated at this time.3. Coronary artery disease. Clinically stable. No further test is indicated at this time."
"REASON FOR CONSULTATION: Atrial fibrillation and shortness of breath.HISTORY OF PRESENTING ILLNESS: The patient is an 81-year-old gentleman. The patient had shortness of breath over the last few days, progressively worse. Yesterday he had one episode and got concerned and came to the Emergency Room, also orthopnea and paroxysmal dyspnea. Coronary artery disease workup many years ago. He also has shortness of breath, weakness, and tiredness.CORONARY RISK FACTORS: History of hypertension, no history of diabetes mellitus, ex-smoker, cholesterol status elevated, no history of established coronary artery disease, and family history positive.FAMILY HISTORY: Positive for coronary artery disease.SURGICAL HISTORY: Knee surgery, hip surgery, shoulder surgery, cholecystectomy, and appendectomy.MEDICATIONS: Thyroid supplementation, atenolol 25 mg daily, Lasix, potassium supplementation, lovastatin 40 mg daily, and Coumadin adjusted dose.ALLERGIES: ASPIRIN.PERSONAL HISTORY: Married, ex-smoker, and does not consume alcohol. No history of recreational drug use.PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Hypertension, hyperlipidemia, atrial fibrillation chronic, on anticoagulation.SURGICAL HISTORY: As above.PRESENTATION HISTORY: Shortness of breath, weakness, fatigue, and tiredness. The patient also relates history of questionable TIA in 1994.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:CONSTITUTIONAL: Weakness, fatigue, tiredness.HEENT: No history of cataracts, blurry vision or glaucoma.CARDIOVASCULAR: Arrhythmia, congestive heart failure, no coronary artery disease.RESPIRATORY: Shortness of breath. No pneumonia or valley fever.GASTROINTESTINAL: Nausea, no vomiting, hematemesis, or melena.UROLOGICAL: Some frequency, urgency, no hematuria.MUSCULOSKELETAL: Arthritis, muscle weakness.SKIN: Chronic skin changes.CNS: History of TIA. No CVA, no seizure disorder.ENDOCRINE: Nonsignificant.HEMATOLOGICAL: Nonsignificant.PSYCHOLOGICAL: No anxiety or depression.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:VITAL SIGNS: Pulse of 67, blood pressure 159/49, afebrile, and respiratory rate 18 per minute.HEENT: Atraumatic and normocephalic.NECK: Neck veins flat. No significant carotid bruits.LUNGS: Air entry bilaterally fair, decreased in basal areas. No rales or wheezes.HEART: PMI displaced. S1 and S2 regular.ABDOMEN: Soft and nontender. Bowel sounds present.EXTREMITIES: Chronic skin changes. Pulses are palpable. No clubbing or cyanosis.CNS: Grossly intact.LABORATORY DATA: H&H stable 30 and 39, INR of 1.86, BUN and creatinine within normal limits, potassium normal limits. First set of cardiac enzymes profile negative. BNP 4810.Chest x-ray confirms unremarkable findings. EKG reveals atrial fibrillation, nonspecific ST-T changes.IMPRESSION:1. The patient is an 81-year-old gentleman with shortness of breath, progressively worsening, of recent onset.2. Cardiac risk factor of hypertension, and hyperlipidemia.3. Atrial fibrillation, chronic, on anticoagulation.RECOMMENDATION:1. Echocardiogram for LV function, to rule out cardiomyopathy, possible arrhythmia induced, however, underlying ischemic etiology cannot be ruled out.2. The patient will have an adenosine stress test, unable to walk on a treadmill with nuclear scan to rule out underlying ischemia.3. Adjustment of medications accordingly to rate control, anticoagulation, and also some diuretics.4. Discussed with the patient the plan of care, fully understand and consent for the same. All the questions answered in detail."
"REASON FOR CONSULTATION: Congestive heart failure.HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 75-year-old gentleman presented through the emergency room. Symptoms are of shortness of breath, fatigue, and tiredness. Main complaints are right-sided and abdominal pain. Initial blood test in the emergency room showed elevated BNP suggestive of congestive heart failure. Given history and his multiple risk factors and workup recently, which has been as mentioned below, the patient was admitted for further evaluation. Incidentally, his x-ray confirms pneumonia.CORONARY RISK FACTORS: History of hypertension, no history of diabetes mellitus, active smoker, cholesterol elevated, questionable history of coronary artery disease, and family history is positive.FAMILY HISTORY: Positive for coronary artery disease.PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: The patient denies any major surgeries.MEDICATIONS: Aspirin, Coumadin adjusted dose, digoxin, isosorbide mononitrate 120 mg daily, Lasix, potassium supplementation, gemfibrozil 600 mg b.i.d., and metoprolol 100 mg b.i.d.ALLERGIES: None reported.PERSONAL HISTORY: Married, active smoker, does not consume alcohol. No history of recreational drug use.PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Hypertension, hyperlipidemia, smoking history, coronary artery disease, cardiomyopathy, COPD, and presentation as above. The patient is on anticoagulation on Coumadin, the patient does not recall the reason.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:CONSTITUTIONAL: Weakness, fatigue, and tiredness.HEENT: History of blurry vision and hearing impaired. No glaucoma.CARDIOVASCULAR: Shortness of breath, congestive heart failure, and arrhythmia. Prior history of chest pain.RESPIRATORY: Bronchitis and pneumonia. No valley fever.GASTROINTESTINAL: No nausea, vomiting, hematemesis, melena, or abdominal pain.UROLOGICAL: No frequency or urgency.MUSCULOSKELETAL: No arthritis or muscle weakness.SKIN: Non-significant.NEUROLOGICAL: No TIA. No CVA or seizure disorder.ENDOCRINE: Non-significant.HEMATOLOGICAL: Non-significant.PSYCHOLOGICAL: Anxiety. No depression.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:VITAL SIGNS: Pulse of 60, blood pressure of 129/73, afebrile, and respiratory rate 16 per minute.HEENT: Atraumatic and normocephalic.NECK: Supple. Neck veins flat.LUNGS: Air entry bilaterally decreased in the basilar areas with scattered rales, especially right side greater than left lung.HEART: PMI displaced. S1 and S2, regular. Systolic murmur.ABDOMEN: Soft and nontender.EXTREMITIES: Trace edema of the ankle. Pulses are feebly palpable. Clubbing plus. No cyanosis.CNS: Grossly intact.MUSCULOSKELETAL: Arthritic changes.PSYCHOLOGICAL: Normal affect.LABORATORY AND DIAGNOSTIC DATA: EKG shows sinus bradycardia, intraventricular conduction defect. Nonspecific ST-T changes.Laboratories noted with H&H 10/32 and white count of 7. INR 1.8. BUN and creatinine within normal limits. Cardiac enzyme profile first set 0.04, BNP of 10,000.Nuclear myocardial perfusion scan with adenosine in the office done about a couple of weeks ago shows ejection fraction of 39% with inferior reversible defect.IMPRESSION: The patient is a 75-year-old gentleman admitted for:1. Pneumonia, chest x-ray confirms the same with shortness of breath.2. Ischemic cardiomyopathy with abnormal stress test, inferior defect, ejection fraction 39% with elevated BNP, possibly secondary to underlying infection versus decompensated congestive heart failure.3. Smoking history, hypertension, and hyperlipidemia.4. Anticoagulation with Coumadin.RECOMMENDATIONS:From cardiac standpoint, the patient will be aggressively treated for pneumonia. Once the pneumonia is resolved and fever is under control, consideration will be given for cardiac workup. All the questions were discussed in this regard. The patient understood aggressive plan of care."
"REASON FOR CONSULTATION: Coronary artery disease (CAD), prior bypass surgery.HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 70-year-old gentleman who was admitted for management of fever. The patient has history of elevated PSA and BPH. He had a prior prostate biopsy and he recently had some procedure done, subsequently developed urinary tract infection, and presently on antibiotic. From cardiac standpoint, the patient denies any significant symptom except for fatigue and tiredness. No symptoms of chest pain or shortness of breath.His history from cardiac standpoint as mentioned below.CORONARY RISK FACTORS: History of hypertension, history of diabetes mellitus, nonsmoker. Cholesterol elevated. History of established coronary artery disease in the family and family history positive.FAMILY HISTORY: Positive for coronary artery disease.SURGICAL HISTORY: Coronary artery bypass surgery and a prior angioplasty and prostate biopsies.MEDICATIONS:1. Metformin.2. Prilosec.3. Folic acid.4. Flomax.5. Metoprolol.6. Crestor.7. Claritin.ALLERGIES: DEMEROL, SULFA.PERSONAL HISTORY: He is married, nonsmoker, does not consume alcohol, and no history of recreational drug use.PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for multiple knee surgeries, back surgery, and coronary artery bypass surgery with angioplasty, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, elevated PSA level, BPH with questionable cancer. Symptoms of shortness of breath, fatigue, and tiredness.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:CONSTITUTIONAL: No history of fever, rigors, or chills except for recent fever and rigors.HEENT: No history of cataract or glaucoma.CARDIOVASCULAR: As above.RESPIRATORY: Shortness of breath. No pneumonia or valley fever.GASTROINTESTINAL: Nausea and vomiting. No hematemesis or melena.UROLOGICAL: Frequency, urgency.MUSCULOSKELETAL: No muscle weakness.SKIN: None significant.NEUROLOGICAL: No TIA or CVA. No seizure disorder.PSYCHOLOGICAL: No anxiety or depression.ENDOCRINE: As above.HEMATOLOGICAL: None significant.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:VITAL SIGNS: Pulse of 75, blood pressure 130/68, afebrile, and respiratory rate 16 per minute.HEENT: Atraumatic, normocephalic.NECK: Veins flat. No significant carotid bruits.LUNGS: Air entry bilaterally fair.HEART: PMI displaced. S1 and S2 regular.ABDOMEN: Soft, nontender. Bowel sounds present.EXTREMITIES: No edema. Pulses are palpable. No clubbing or cyanosis.CNS: Benign.EKG: Normal sinus rhythm, incomplete right bundle-branch block.LABORATORY DATA: H&H stable, BUN and creatinine within normal limits.IMPRESSION:1. History of coronary artery disease, prior bypass surgery, angioplasty, significant shortness of breath.2. Fever with possible urinary tract infection versus prostatitis.3. Hypertension, hyperlipidemia, diabetes mellitus.4. Contemplated prostate surgery down the road.RECOMMENDATION:1. From cardiac standpoint, medical management including antibiotic for his fever.2. We will consider cardiac workup in terms of to rule out ischemia and patency of the graft. If he decides to go for surgery, I would like him to wait until the fever has subsided and is well under control. Discussed with the patient the plan of care, consent was obtained. All the questions answered in detail."
"HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a charming and delightful 46-year-old woman admitted with palpitations and presyncope.The patient is active and a previously healthy young woman, who has had nine years of occasional palpitations. Symptoms occur three to four times per year and follow no identifiable pattern. She has put thought and effort in trying to identify precipitating factors or circumstances but has been unable to do so. Symptoms can last for an hour or more and she feels as if her heart is going very rapidly but has never measured her heart rate. The last two episodes, the most recent of which was yesterday, were associated with feeling of darkness descending as if a shade was being pulled down in front of her vision. On neither occasion did she lose consciousness.Yesterday, she had a modestly active morning taking a walk with her dogs and performing her normal routines. While working on a computer, she had a spell. Palpitations persisted for a short time thereafter as outlined in the hospital's admission note prompting her to seek evaluation at the hospital. She was in sinus rhythm on arrival and has been asymptomatic since.No history of exogenous substance abuse, alcohol abuse, or caffeine abuse. She does have a couple of sodas and at least one to two coffees daily. She is a nonsmoker. She is a mother of two. There is no family history of congenital heart disease. She has had no history of thoracic trauma. No symptoms to suggest thyroid disease.No known history of diabetes, hypertension, or dyslipidemia. Family history is negative for ischemic heart disease.Remote history is significant for an ACL repair, complicated by contact urticaria from a neoprene cast.No regular medications prior to admission.The only allergy is the neoprene reaction outlined above.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Vital signs as charted. Pupils are reactive. Sclerae nonicteric. Mucous membranes are moist. Neck veins not distended. No bruits. Lungs are clear. Cardiac exam is regular without murmurs, gallops, or rubs. Abdomen is soft without guarding, rebound masses, or bruits. Extremities well perfused. No edema. Strong and symmetrical distal pulses.A 12-lead EKG shows sinus rhythm with normal axis and intervals. No evidence of preexcitation.LABORATORY STUDIES: Unremarkable. No evidence of myocardial injury. Thyroid function is pending.Two-dimensional echocardiogram shows no evidence of clinically significant structural or functional heart disease.IMPRESSION/PLAN: Episodic palpitations over a nine-year period. Outpatient workup would be appropriate. Event recorder should be obtained and the patient can be seen again in the office upon completion of that study. Suppressive medication (beta-blocker or Cardizem) was discussed with the patient for symptomatic improvement, though this would be unlikely to be a curative therapy. The patient expresses a preference to avoid medical therapy if possible.Thank you for this consultation. We will be happy to follow her both during this hospitalization and following discharge. Caffeine avoidance was discussed as well.ADDENDUM: During her initial evaluation, a D-dimer was mildly elevated to 5. CT scan showed no evidence of pulmonary embolus. Lower extremity venous ultrasound is pending; however, in the absence of embolization to the pulmonary vasculature, this would be an unlikely cause of palpitations. In addition, no progression over the nine-year period that she has been symptomatic suggests that this is an unlikely cause."
"HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: A 67-year-old male with COPD and history of bronchospasm, who presents with a 3-day history of increased cough, respiratory secretions, wheezings, and shortness of breath. He was seen by me in the office on the day of admission and noted to be dyspneic with audible wheezing and he was admitted for acute asthmatic bronchitis, superimposed upon longstanding COPD. Unfortunately over the past few months he has returned to pipe smoking. At the time of admission, he denied fever, diaphoresis, nausea, chest pain or other systemic symptoms.PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Status post artificial aortic valve implantation in summer of 2002 and is on chronic Coumadin therapy. COPD as described above, history of hypertension, and history of elevated cholesterol.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Heart tones regular with an easily audible mechanical click. Breath sounds are greatly diminished with rales and rhonchi over all lung fields.LABORATORY STUDIES: Sodium 139, potassium 4.5, BUN 42, and creatinine 1.7. Hemoglobin 10.7 and hematocrit 31.7.HOSPITAL COURSE: He was started on intravenous antibiotics, vigorous respiratory therapy, intravenous Solu-Medrol. The patient improved on this regimen. Chest x-ray did not show any CHF. The cortisone was tapered. The patient's oxygenation improved and he was able to be discharged home.DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and acute asthmatic bronchitis.COMPLICATIONS: None.DISCHARGE CONDITION: Guarded.DISCHARGE PLAN: Prednisone 20 mg 3 times a day for 2 days, 2 times a day for 5 days and then one daily, Keflex 500 mg 3 times a day and to resume his other preadmission medication, can be given a pneumococcal vaccination before discharge. To follow up with me in the office in 4-5 days."
"DIAGNOSIS AT ADMISSION: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) exacerbation and acute bronchitis.DIAGNOSES AT DISCHARGE1. Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease exacerbation and acute bronchitis.2. Congestive heart failure.3. Atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease.4. Mild senile-type dementia.5. Hypothyroidism.6. Chronic oxygen dependent.7. Do not resuscitate/do not intubate.HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted from the office by Dr. X. She was placed on the usual medications that included Synthroid 0.05 mg a day, enalapril 5 mg a day, Imdur 30 mg a day, Lanoxin 0.125 mg a day, aspirin 81 mg a day, albuterol and Atrovent nebulizers q.4 h., potassium chloride 10 mEq 2 tablets per day, Lasix 40 mg a day, Humibid L.A. 600 mg b.i.d. She was placed on oral Levaquin after a load of 500 mg and 250 mg a day. She was given oxygen, encouraged to eat, and suctioned as needed.Laboratory data included a urinalysis that had 0-2 WBCs per high power field and urine culture was negative, blood cultures x2 were negative, TSH was 1.7, and chem-7, sodium 134, potassium 4.4, chloride 93, CO2 34, glucose 105, BUN 17, creatinine 0.9, and calcium 9.1. Digoxin was 1.3. White blood cell count was 6100 with a normal differential, H&H 37.4/12.1, platelets 335,000. Chest x-ray was thought to have prominent interstitial lung changes without acute infiltrate. There is a question if there is mild fluid overload.The patient improved with the above regimen. By discharge, her lungs fell back to her baseline. She had no significant shortness of breath. Her O2 saturations were stable. Her vital signs were stable.She is discharged home to follow up with me in a week and a half.Her daughter has been spoken to by phone and she will notify me if she worsens or has problems.PROGNOSIS: Guarded."
"SUBJECTIVE: Review of the medical record shows that the patient is a 97-year-old female patient who has been admitted and has been treated for community acquired pneumonia along with COPD exacerbation. The patient does have a longstanding history of COPD. However, she does not use oxygen at her independent assisted living home. Yesterday, she had made improvement since being here at the hospital. She needed oxygen. She was tested for home O2 and qualified for it yesterday also. Her lungs were very tight. She did have wheezes bilaterally and rhonchi on the right side mostly. She appeared to be a bit weak and although she was requesting to be discharged home, she did not appear to be fit for it.Overnight, the patient needed to use the rest room. She stated that she needed to urinate. She awoke, decided not to call for assistance. She stated that she did have her nurse call light button next to her and she was unable to gain access to her walker. She attempted to walk to the rest room on her own. She sustained a fall. She stated that she just felt weak. She bumped her knee and her elbow. She had femur x-rays, knee x-rays also. There was possibility of subchondral fracture and some swelling of her suprapatellar bursa on the right side. This morning, she denied any headache, back pain or neck pain. She complained mostly of right anterior knee pain for which she had some bruising and swelling.OBJECTIVE:VITAL SIGNS: The patient's max temperature over the past 24 hours was 36.5; her blood pressure is 148/77, her pulse is 87 to 106. She is 95% on 2 L via nasal cannula.HEART: Regular rate and rhythm without murmur, gallop or rub.LUNGS: Reveal no expiratory wheezing throughout. She does have some rhonchi on the right mid base. She did have a productive cough this morning and she is coughing green purulent sputum finally.ABDOMEN: Soft and nontender. Her bowel sounds x4 are normoactive.NEUROLOGIC: She is alert and oriented x3. Her pupils are equal and reactive. She has got a good head and facial muscle strength. Her tongue is midline. She has got clear speech. Her extraocular motions are intact. Her spine is nontender on palpation from neck to lumbar spine. She has good range of motion with regard to her shoulders, elbows, wrists and fingers. Her grip strengths are equal bilaterally. Both elbows are strong from extension to flexion. Her hip flexors and extenders are also strong and equal bilaterally. Extension and flexion of the knee bilaterally and ankles also are strong. Palpation of her right knee reveals no crepitus. She does have suprapatellar inflammation with some ecchymosis and swelling. She has got good joint range of motion however.SKIN: She did have a skin tear involving her right forearm lateral, which is approximately 2 to 2.5 inches in length and is at this time currently Steri-Stripped and wrapped with Coban and is not actively bleeding.ASSESSMENT:1. Acute on chronic COPD exacerbation.2. Community acquired pneumonia both resolving. However, she may need home O2 for a short period of time.3. Generalized weakness and deconditioning secondary to the above. Also sustained a fall secondary to instability and not using her walker or calling for assistance. The patient stated that she knew better and she should have called for assistance and she had been told repeatedly from her family members and staff to call for assistance if she needed to get out of bed.PLAN:1. I will have PT and OT evaluate the patient and give recommendation to safety and appliance use at home i.e. walker. Myself and one of her daughter's spoke today about the fact that she generally lives independently at the Brooke and she may need assisted living along with physical therapy and oxygen for a period of time rather than going back to independent living.2. We will obtain an orthopedic consult secondary to her fall to evaluate her x-rays and function."
"REASON FOR EXAM: Dynamic ST-T changes with angina.PROCEDURE:1. Selective coronary angiography.2. Left heart catheterization with hemodynamics.3. LV gram with power injection.4. Right femoral artery angiogram.5. Closure of the right femoral artery using 6-French AngioSeal.Procedure explained to the patient, with risks and benefits. The patient agreed and signed the consent form.The patient received a total of 2 mg of Versed and 25 mcg of fentanyl for conscious sedation. The patient was draped and dressed in the usual sterile fashion. The right groin area infiltrated with lidocaine solution. Access to the right femoral artery was successful, okayed with one attempt with anterior wall stick. Over a J-wire, 6-French sheath was introduced using modified Seldinger technique.Over the J-wire, a JL4 catheter was passed over the aortic arch. The wire was removed. Catheter was engaged into the left main. Multiple pictures with RAO caudal, AP cranial, LAO cranial, shallow RAO, and LAO caudal views were all obtained. Catheter disengaged and exchanged over J-wire into a JR4 catheter, the wire was removed. Catheter with counter-clock was rotating to the RCA one shot with LAO, position was obtained. The cath disengaged and exchanged over J-wire into a pigtail catheter. Pigtail catheter across the aortic valve. Hemodynamics obtained. LV gram with power injection of 36 mL of contrast was obtained.The LV gram assessed followed by pullback hemodynamics.The catheter exchanged out and the right femoral artery angiogram completed to the end followed by the removal of the sheath and deployment of 6-French AngioSeal with no hematoma. The patient tolerated the procedure well with no immediate postprocedure complication.HEMODYNAMICS: The aortic pressure was 117/61 with a mean pressure of 83. The left ventricular pressure was 119/9 to 19 with left ventricular end-diastolic pressure of 17 to 19 mmHg. The pullback across the aortic valve reveals zero gradient.ANATOMY: The left main showed minimal calcification as well as the proximal LAD. No stenosis in the left main seen, the left main bifurcates in to the LAD and left circumflex.The LAD was a large and a long vessel that wraps around the apex showed no focal stenosis or significant atheromatous plaque and the flow was TIMI 3 flow in the LAD. The LAD gave off two early diagonal branches. The second was the largest of the two and showed minimal lumen irregularities, but no focal stenosis.Left circumflex was a dominant system supplying three obtuse marginal branches and distally supplying the PDA. The left circumflex was large and patent, 6.0 mm in diameter. All three obtuse marginal branches appeared to be with no significant stenosis.The obtuse marginal branch, the third OM3 showed at the origin about 30 to 40% minimal narrowing, but no significant stenosis. The PDA was wide, patent, with no focal stenosis.The RCA was a small nondominant system with no focal stenosis and supplying the RV marginal.LV gram showed that the LV EF is preserved with EF of 60%. No mitral regurgitation identified.IMPRESSION:1. Patent coronary arteries with normal left anterior descending, left circumflex, and dominant left circumflex system.2. Nondominant right, which is free of atheromatous plaque.3. Minimal plaque in the diagonal branch II, and the obtusemarginal branch III, with no focal stenosis.4. Normal left ventricular function.5. Evaluation for noncardiac chest pain would be recommended."
"NAME OF PROCEDURE1. Selective coronary angiography.2. Placement of overlapping 3.0 x 18 and 3.0 x 8 mm Xience stents in the proximal right coronary artery.3. Abdominal aortography.INDICATIONS: The patient is a 65-year-old gentleman with a history of exertional dyspnea and a cramping-like chest pain. Thallium scan has been negative. He is undergoing angiography to determine if his symptoms are due to coronary artery disease.NARRATIVE: The right groin was sterilely prepped and draped in the usual fashion and the area of the right coronary artery anesthetized with 2% lidocaine. Constant sedation was obtained using Versed 1 mg and fentanyl 50 mcg. Received additional Versed and fentanyl during the procedure. Please refer to the nurses' notes for dosages and timing.The right femoral artery was entered and a 4-French sheath was placed. Advancement of the guidewire demonstrated some obstruction at the level of abdominal aorta. Via the right Judkins catheter, the guidewire was easily infiltrated to the thoracic aorta and over aortic arch. The right Judkins catheter was advanced to the origin of the right coronary artery where selective angiograms were performed. This revealed a very high-grade lesion at the proximal right coronary artery. This catheter was exchanged for a left #4 Judkins catheter which was advanced to the ostium of the left main coronary artery where selective angiograms were performed.The patient was found to have the above mentioned high-grade lesion in the right coronary artery and a coronary intervention was performed. A 6-French sheath and a right Judkins guide was placed. The patient was started on bivalarudin. A BMW wire was easily placed across the lesion and into the distal right coronary artery. A 3.0 x 15 mm Voyager balloon was placed and deployed at 10 atmospheres. The intermediate result was improved with TIMI-3 flow to the terminus of the vessel. Following this, a 3.0 x 18 mm Xience stent was placed across the lesion and deployed at 17 atmospheres. This revealed excellent result however at the very distal of the stent there was an area of haziness but no definite dissection. This was stented with a 3.0 x 8 mm Xience stent deployed again at 17 atmospheres. Final angiograms revealed excellent result with TIMI-3 flow at the terminus of the right coronary artery and approximately 10% residual stenosis at the worst point of the narrowing. The guiding catheter was withdrawn over wire and a pigtail was placed. This was advanced to the abdominal aorta at the area of obstruction and small injection of contrast was given demonstrating that there was a small aneurysm versus a small retrograde dissection in that area with some dye hang up after injection. The catheter was removed. The bivalarudin was stopped at the termination of procedure. A small injection of contrast given through arterial sheath and Angio-Seal was placed without incident.It should also be noted that an 8-French sheath was placed in the right femoral vein. This was placed initially as the patient was going to have a right heart catheterization as well because of the dyspnea.Total contrast media, 205 mL, total fluoroscopy time was 7.5 minutes, X-ray dose, 2666 milligray.HEMODYNAMICS: Rhythm was sinus throughout the procedure. Aortic pressure was 170/81 mmHg.The right coronary artery is a dominant vessel. This vessel gives rise to conus branch and two small RV free wall branches and PDA and a small left ventricular branch. It should be noted that there was competitive flow in the posterior left ventricular branch and that the distal right coronary artery fills via left sided collaterals. In the proximal right coronary artery, there is a large ulcerative plaque followed immediately by a severe stenosis that is subtotal in severity. After intervention, there is TIMI-3 flow to the terminus of the right coronary with better fill into the distal right coronary artery and loss of competitive flow. There was approximately 10% residual stenosis at the worst part of the previous stenosis.The left main is without disease and trifurcates into a moderate-sized ramus intermedius, the LAD and the circumflex. The ramus intermedius is free of disease. The LAD terminates at the LV apex and has elongated area of mild stenosis at its mid segment. This measures 25% to 30% at its worst point. The circumflex is a large caliber vessel. There is a proximal 15% to 20% stenosis and an area of ectasia in the proximal circumflex. Distally, this circumflex gives rise to a large bifurcating marginal artery and beyond that point, the circumflex is a small vessel within the AV groove.The aortogram demonstrates eccentric aneurysm formation. This may represent a small retrograde dissection as well. There was some dye hang up in the wall.IMPRESSION1. Successful stenting of subtotal stenosis of the proximal coronary artery.2. Non-obstructive coronary artery disease in the mid left anterior descending as described above and ectasia of the proximal circumflex coronary artery.3. Left to right collateral filling noted prior to coronary intervention.4. Small area of eccentric aneurysm formation in the abdominal aorta."
"HISTORY: Coronary artery disease.TECHNIQUE AND FINDINGS: Calcium scoring and coronary artery CTA with cardiac function was performed on Siemens dual-source CT scanner with postprocessing on Vitrea workstation. Patient received oral Metoprolol 100 milligrams. 100 ml Ultravist 370 was utilized as the contrast agent. 0.4 milligrams of nitroglycerin was given.Patient's calcium score 164, volume 205; this places the patient between the 75th and 90th percentile for age. There is at least moderate atherosclerotic plaque with mild coronary artery disease and significant narrowings possible.Cardiac wall motion was within normal limits. Left ventricular ejection fraction calculated to be 82%. End-diastolic volume 98 mL, end-systolic volume calculated to be 18 mL.There is normal coronary artery origins. There is codominance between the right coronary artery and the circumflex artery. There is mild to moderate stenosis of the proximal LAD with mixed plaque. Mild stenosis mid LAD with mixed plaque. No stenosis. Distal LAD with the distal vessel becoming diminutive in size. Right coronary artery shows mild stenosis proximally and in the midportion due to calcified focal plaque. Once again the distal vessel becomes diminutive in size. Circumflex shows mild stenosis due to focal calcified plaque proximally. No stenosis is seen involving the mid or distal circumflex. The distal circumflex also becomes diminutive in size. The left main shows small amount of focal calcified plaque without stenosis. Myocardium, pericardium and wall motion was unremarkable as seen.IMPRESSION:1. Atherosclerotic coronary artery disease with values as above. There are areas of stenosis most pronounced in the LAD with mild to moderate change and mild stenosis involving the circumflex and right coronary artery.2. Consider cardiology consult and further evaluation if clinically indicated.3. Full report was sent to the PACS. Report will be mailed to Dr. ABC."
"Your patient, (ABC), a 59-year-old female with no known coronary artery disease was referred to us for a CT coronary angiogram. The patient's cardiac risk factors include chest discomfort, family history of coronary artery disease, and hypercholesterolemia. She is on no cardiac medications at the time of testing. The patient's resting ECG demonstrated no ischemic changes.CARDIAC CT INCLUDING CORONARY CT ANGIOGRAPHYPROCEDURE: Breath hold cardiac CT was performed using a 64-channel CT scanner with a 0.5-second rotation time. Contrast injection was timed using a 10 mL bolus of Ultravist 370 IV. Then the patient received 75 mL of Ultravist 370 at a rate of 5 mL/sec.Retrospective ECG gating was performed. The patient received 0.4 milligrams of sublingual nitroglycerin prior to the to the scan. The average heart rate was 62 beats/min.The patient had no adverse reaction to the contrast. Multiphase retrospective reconstructions were performed. Small field of view cardiac and coronary images were analyzed on a 3D work station. Multiplanar reformatted images and 3D volume rendering was performed by the attending physician for the purpose of defining coronary anatomy and determining the extent of coronary artery disease.CORONARY CTA:1. The technical quality of the scan is adequate.2. The coronary ostia are in their normal position. The coronary anatomy is right dominant.3. LEFT MAIN: The left main coronary artery is patent without angiographic stenosis.4. LEFT ANTERIOR DESCENDING ARTERY: The proximal aspect of the left anterior descending artery demonstrates a mixed plaque consisting of both calcified and noncalcified lesion which is less than 30% in stenosis severity. Diagonal 1 and diagonal 2 branches of the left anterior descending artery demonstrate mild irregularities.5. The ramus intermedius is a small vessel with minor irregularities.6. LEFT CIRCUMFLEX: The left circumflex and obtuse marginal 1 and obtuse marginal 2 branches of the vessel are patent without significant stenosis.7. RIGHT CORONARY ARTERY: The right coronary artery is a large and dominant vessel. It demonstrates within its mid-segment calcified atherosclerosis, less than 50% stenosis severity. Left ventricular ejection fraction is calculated to be 69%. There are no wall motion abnormalities.8. Coronary calcium score was calculated to be 79, indicating at least mild atherosclerosis within the coronary vessels.ANCILLARY FINDINGS: None.FINAL IMPRESSION:1. Mild coronary artery disease with a preserved left ventricular ejection fraction of 69%.2. Recommendation is aggressive medical management consisting of aggressive lifestyle modifications and statin therapy.Thank you for referring this patient to us."
"EXAM: Coronary artery CTA with calcium scoring and cardiac function.HISTORY: Chest pain.TECHNIQUE AND FINDINGS: Coronary artery CTA was performed on a Siemens dual-source CT scanner. Post-processing on a Vitrea workstation. 150 mL Ultravist 370 was utilized as the intravenous contrast agent. Patient did receive nitroglycerin sublingually prior to the contrast.HISTORY: Significant for high cholesterol, overweight, chest pain, family historyPatient's total calcium score (Agatston) is 10. his places the patient just below the 75th percentile for age.The LAD has a moderate area of stenosis in its midportion due to a focal calcified plaque. The distal LAD was unreadable while the proximal was normal. The mid and distal right coronary artery are not well delineated due to beam-hardening artifact. The circumflex is diminutive in size along its proximal portion. Distal is not readable.Cardiac wall motion within normal limits. No gross pulmonary artery abnormality however they are not well delineated. A full report was placed on the patient's chart. Report was saved to PACS."
"A 51-year-old male with chest pain and history of coronary artery disease.COMPARISON: None.MEDICATIONS: Lopressor 5mg IV at 0920 hours.HEART RATE: Recorded heart rate 55 to 57bpm.EXAM:Initial unenhanced axial CT imaging of the heart was obtained with ECG gating for the purpose of coronary artery calcium scoring (Agatston Method) and calcium volume determination.18 gauge IV Intracath was inserted into the right antecubital vein.A 20cc saline bolus was injected intravenously to confirm vein patency and adequacy of venous access.Multi-detector CT imaging was performed with a 64 slice MDCT scanner with images obtained from the mid ascending aorta to the diaphragm at 0.5mm slice thickness during breath-holding.95 cc of Isovue was administered followed by a 90cc saline ๏ฟฝbolus chaserย. Image reconstruction was performed using retrospective cardiac gating. Calcium scoring analysis (Agatston Method and volume determination) was performed.FINDINGS:CALCIUM SCORE: The patient's total Agatston calcium score is: 115. The Agatston score for the individual vessels are: LM: 49. RCA: 1. LAD: 2. CX: 2. Other: 62. The Agatston calcium score places the patient in the 90th percentile, which means 10 percent of the male population in this age group would have a higher calcium score.QUALITY ASSESSMENT: Examination is of good quality with good bolus timing and good demonstration of coronary arteries.LEFT MAIN CORONARY ARTERY: The left main coronary artery has a posteriorly positioned take-off from the valve cusp, with a patent ostium, and it has an extramural (non-malignant) course. The vessel is of moderate size. There is an apparent second ostium, in a more normal anatomic location, but quite small. This has an extramural (non-malignant) course. There is mixed calcific/atheromatous plaque within the distal vessel, as well as positive remodeling. There is no high grade stenosis but a flow-limiting lesion can not be excluded. The vessel trifurcates into a left anterior descending artery, a ramus intermedius and a left circumflex artery.LEFT ANTERIOR DESCENDING CORONARY ARTERY: The left anterior descending artery is a moderate-size vessel, with ostial calcific plaque and soft plaque without a high-grade stenosis, but there may be a flow-limiting lesion here. There is a moderate size bifurcating first diagonal branch with ostial calcification, but no flow-limiting lesion. LAD continues as a moderate-size vessel to the posterior apex of the left ventricle.Ramus intermedius branch is a moderate to large-size vessel with extensive calcific plaque, but no ostial stenosis. The dense calcific plaque limits evaluation of the vessel lumen, and a flow-limiting lesion within the proximal vessel cannot be excluded. The vessel continues as a small vessel on the left lateral ventricular wall.LEFT CIRCUMFLEX CORONARY ARTERY: The left circumflex artery is a moderate-size vessel with a normal ostium giving rise to a small OM1 branch and a large OM2 branch supplying much of the posterolateral wall of the left ventricular. The AV-groove branch tapers at the base of the heart. There is minimal calcific plaque within the mid vessel, but there is no flow-limiting stenosis.RIGHT CORONARY ARTERY: The right coronary artery is a large vessel with a normal ostium giving rise to a moderate-size acute marginal branch and continuing as a large vessel to the crux of the heart supplying a left posterior descending artery and small posterolateral ventricular branches. There is minimal calcific plaque within the mid vessel, but there is no flow-limiting lesion.Coronary circulation is right dominant.FUNCTIONAL ANALYSIS: End diastolic volume: 106ml End systolic volume: 44ml Ejection fraction: 58 percentANATOMIC ANALYSIS:Normal heart size with no demonstrated ventricular wall abnormalities. There are no demonstrated myocardialbridges. Normal left atrial appendage with no evidence of thrombosis.Cardiac valves are normal.The aortic diameter measures 33mm just distal to the sino-tubular junction. The visualized thoracic aorta appears normal in size.Normal pericardium without pericardial thickening or effusion.There is no demonstrated mediastinal or hilar adenopathy. The visualized lung parenchyma is unremarkable.There are two left and two right pulmonary veins.IMPRESSION:Ventricular function: Normal.Single vessel coronary artery analysis:LM: There is a posterior origin from the valve cusp. There is mixed calcific/atheromatous plaque and positive remodeling plaque within the LM, and although there is no high grade stenosis, a flow-limiting lesion can not be excluded. In addition, there is an apparent second ostium of indeterminate significance, but both ostia have extramural (non-malignant) courses.LAD: Dense calcific plaque within the proximal vessel with ostial calcification and possible flow-limiting proximal lesion. There is a ramus branch with dense calcific plaque limiting evaluation of the vessel lumen, but a flow-limiting lesion cannot be excluded here.CX: Minimal calcific plaque with no flow-limiting lesion.RCA: Minimal calcific plaque with no flow-limiting lesion.Coronary artery dominance: Right."
"A 62-year-old male with a history of ischemic cardiomyopathy and implanted defibrillator.COMPARISON STUDIES: None.MEDICATION: Lopressor 5 mg IV.HEART RATE AFTER MEDICATION: 64bpmEXAM:TECHNIQUE: Tomographic images were obtained of the heart and chest with a 64 detector row scanner using slice thicknesses of less than 1 mm. 80cc๏ฟฝs of Isovue 370 was injected in the right arm.TECHNICAL QUALITY:Examination is limited secondary to extensive artifact from defibrillator wires.There is good demonstration of the coronary arteries and there is good bolus timing.FINDINGS:LEFT MAIN CORONARY ARTERY:The left main coronary artery is a moderate-sized vessel with a normal ostium. There is no calcific or non-calcific plaque. The vessel bifurcates into a left anterior descending artery and a left circumflex artery.LEFT ANTERIOR DESCENDING ARTERY:The left anterior descending artery is a moderate-sized vessel, with a small first diagonal branch and a large second diagonal branch. The vessel continues as a small vessel, tapering at the apex of the left ventricle. There is calcific plaque within the mid vessel, with dense calcific plaque at the bifurcation of the second diagonal branch. This limits evaluation of the vessel lumen, and although a flow-limiting lesion cannot be excluded, there is no evidence of a high-grade stenosis. There is ostial calcification within the second diagonal branch as well. The LAD distal to the second diagonal branch is small relative to the more proximal vessel, and this is worrisome for a proximal flow-limiting lesion.In addition, there is marked tapering of the D2 branch distal to the proximal and ostial calcific plaque. This is worrisome for either occlusion or a high-grade stenosis. There is only minimal contrast that is identified in the distal vessel.LEFT CIRCUMFLEX ARTERY:The left circumflex artery is a moderate-sized vessel with a patent ostium. There is calcific plaque within the proximal vessel. There is dense calcific plaque at the bifurcation of the OM1, and the AV groove branch. The AV groove branch tapers as a small vessel at the base of the heart. The dense calcific plaque within the bifurcation of the OM1 and the AV groove branch limits evaluation of the vessel lumen. There is no demonstrated high-grade stenosis, but a flow-limiting lesion cannot be excluded here.RIGHT CORONARY ARTERY:The right coronary artery is a moderate-sized vessel with a patent ostium. There is proximal mixed calcific and non-calcific plaque, but there is no flow-limiting lesion. The vessel continues as a moderate-sized vessel to the crux of the heart, supplying a small posterior descending artery and moderate to large posterolateral ventricular branches.There is scattered calcific plaque within the mid vessel and there is also calcific plaque within the distal vessel at the origin of the posterior descending artery. There is no flow-limited lesion demonstrated.The right coronary artery is dominant.NONCORONARY CARDIAC STRUCTURE:CARDIAC CHAMBERS: There is diffuse myocardial thinning within the left ventricle, particularly within the apex where there is subendocardial calcification, consistent with chronic infarction. There is ventricular enlargement. There is no demonstrated aneurysm or pseudoaneurysm.CARDIAC VALVES: There is calcification within the left aortic valve cusp. The aortic valve is tri-leaflet. Normal mitral valve.PERICARDIUM: Normal.GREAT VESSELS: There are atherosclerotic changes within the aorta.VISUALIZED LUNG PARENCHYMA, MEDIASTINUM AND CHEST WALL: Normal.IMPRESSION:Limited examination secondary to extensive artifact from the pacemaker wires.There is extensive calcific plaque within the left anterior descending artery as well as within the proximal second diagonal branch. There is marked tapering of the LAD distal to the bifurcation of the D1 and this is worrisome for a flow-limiting lesion, but there is no evidence of occlusion.There is marked tapering of the D1 branch distal to the calcific plaque and occlusion cannot be excluded.There is dense calcific plaque within the left circumflex artery, and although a flow-limiting lesion cannot be excluded here, there is no evidence of an occlusion or high-grade stenosis.There is mixed soft and calcific plaque within the proximal RCA, but there is no flow limiting lesion demonstrated.There is diffuse thinning of the left ventricular wall, most focal at the apex where there is also dense calcification, consistent with chronic infarction. There is no demonstrated aneurysm or pseudoaneurysm."
"CT ANGIOGRAPHY CHEST WITH CONTRASTREASON FOR EXAM: Chest pain, shortness of breath and cough, evaluate for pulmonary arterial embolism.TECHNIQUE: Axial CT images of the chest were obtained for pulmonary embolism protocol utilizing 100 mL of Isovue-300.FINDINGS: There is no evidence for pulmonary arterial embolism.The lungs are clear of any abnormal airspace consolidation, pleural effusion, or pneumothorax. No abnormal mediastinal or hilar lymphadenopathy is seen.Limited images of the upper abdomen are unremarkable. No destructive osseous lesion is detected.IMPRESSION: Negative for pulmonary arterial embolism."
"CT ANGIOGRAPHY CHEST WITH CONTRASTREASON FOR EXAM: Shortness of breath for two weeks and a history of pneumonia. The patient also has a history of left lobectomy.TECHNIQUE: Axial CT images of the chest were obtained for pulmonary embolism protocol utilizing 100 mL of Isovue-300.FINDINGS: There is no evidence of any acute pulmonary arterial embolism.The main pulmonary artery is enlarged showing a diameter of 4.7 cm.Cardiomegaly is seen with mitral valvular calcifications.Postsurgical changes of a left upper lobectomy are seen. Left lower lobe atelectasis is noted. A 7 mm and a 5 mm pulmonary nodule are seen within the left lower lobe (image #12). A small left pleural effusion is noted.Right lower lobe atelectasis is present. There is a right pleural effusion, greater than as seen on the left side. A right lower lobe pulmonary nodule measures 1.5 cm. There is a calcified granuloma within the right lower lobe.IMPRESSION:1. Negative for pulmonary arterial embolism.2. Enlargement of the main pulmonary artery as can be seen with pulmonary arterial hypertension.3. Cardiomegaly with mitral valvular calcifications.4. Postsurgical changes of a left upper lobectomy.5. Bilateral pleural effusions, right greater than left with bilateral lower lobe atelectasis.6. Bilateral lower lobe nodules, pulmonary nodules, and interval followup in three months to confirm stability versus further characterization with prior studies is advised."
"TECHNIQUE: Sequential axial CT images were obtained from the base of the brain to the upper abdomen following the uneventful administration of 100cc Optiray 350 intravenous contrast.FINDINGS: The heart size is normal and there is no pericardial effusion. The aorta and great vessels are normal in caliber. The central pulmonary arteries are patent with no evidence of embolus. There is no significant mediastinal, hilar, or axillary lymphadenopathy. The trachea and mainstem bronchi are patent. The esophagus is normal in course and caliber. The lungs are clear with no infiltrates, effusions, or masses. There is no pneumothorax. Scans through the upper abdomen are unremarkable. The osseous structures in the chest are intact. IMPRESSION: No acute abnormalities."
"EXAM: CT chest with contrast.REASON FOR EXAM: Pneumonia, chest pain, short of breath, and coughing up blood.TECHNIQUE: Postcontrast CT chest 100 mL of Isovue-300 contrast.FINDINGS: This study demonstrates a small region of coalescent infiltrates/consolidation in the anterior right upper lobe. There are linear fibrotic or atelectatic changes associated with this. Recommend followup to ensure resolution. There is left apical scarring. There is no pleural effusion or pneumothorax. There is lingular and right middle lobe mild atelectasis or fibrosis.Examination of the mediastinal windows disclosed normal inferior thyroid. Cardiac and aortic contours are unremarkable aside from mild atherosclerosis. The heart is not enlarged. There is no pathologic adenopathy identified in the chest including the bilateral axillary and hilar regions.Very limited assessment of the upper abdomen demonstrates no definite abnormalities.There are mild degenerative changes in the thoracic spine.IMPRESSION:1.Anterior small right upper lobe infiltrate/consolidation. Recommend followup to ensure resolution given its consolidated appearance.2.Bilateral atelectasis versus fibrosis."
"CLINICAL HISTORY: A 68-year-old white male with recently diagnosed adenocarcinoma by sputum cytology. An abnormal chest radiograph shows right middle lobe infiltrate and collapse. Patient needs staging CT of chest with contrast. Right sided supraclavicular and lower anterior cervical adenopathy noted on physical exam.TECHNIQUE: Multiple transaxial images utilized in 10 mm sections were obtained through the chest. Intravenous contrast was administered.FINDINGS: There is a large 3 x 4 cm lymph node seen in the right supraclavicular region. There is a large right paratracheal lymph node best appreciated on image #16 which measures 3 x 2 cm. A subcarinal lymph node is enlarged also. It measures 6 x 2 cm. Multiple pulmonary nodules are seen along the posterior border of the visceral as well as parietal pleura. There is a pleural mass seen within the anterior sulcus of the right hemithorax as well as the right crus of the diaphragm. There is also a soft tissue density best appreciated on image #36 adjacent to the inferior aspect of the right lobe of the liver which most likely also represents metastatic deposit. The liver parenchyma is normal without evidence of any dominant masses. The right kidney demonstrates a solitary cyst in the mid pole of the right kidney.IMPRESSION:1. Greater than twenty pulmonary nodules demonstrated on the right side to include pulmonary nodules within the parietal as well as various visceral pleura with adjacent consolidation most likely representing pulmonary neoplasm.2. Extensive mediastinal adenopathy as described above.3. No lesion seen within the left lung at this time.4. Supraclavicular adenopathy."
"EXAM: CT chest with contrast.HISTORY: Abnormal chest x-ray, which demonstrated a region of consolidation versus mass in the right upper lobe.TECHNIQUE: Post contrast-enhanced spiral images were obtained through the chest.FINDINGS: There are several, discrete, patchy air-space opacities in the right upper lobe, which have the appearance most compatible with infiltrates. The remainder of the lung parenchyma is clear. There is no pneumothorax or effusion. The heart size and pulmonary vessels appear unremarkable. There was no axillary, hilar or mediastinal lymphadenopathy.Images of the upper abdomen are unremarkable.Osseous windows are without acute pathology.IMPRESSION: Several discrete patchy air-space opacities in the right upper lobe, compatible with pneumonia."
"DIAGNOSES ON ADMISSION1. Cerebrovascular accident (CVA) with right arm weakness.2. Bronchitis.3. Atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease.4. Hyperlipidemia.5. Thrombocytopenia.DIAGNOSES ON DISCHARGE1. Cerebrovascular accident with right arm weakness and MRI indicating acute/subacute infarct involving the left posterior parietal lobe without mass effect.2. Old coronary infarct, anterior aspect of the right external capsule.3. Acute bronchitis with reactive airway disease.4. Thrombocytopenia most likely due to old coronary infarct, anterior aspect of the right external capsule.5. Atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease.6. Hyperlipidemia.HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted to the emergency room. Plavix was started in addition to baby aspirin. He was kept on oral Zithromax for his cough. He was given Xopenex treatment, because of his respiratory distress. Carotid ultrasound was reviewed and revealed a 50 to 69% obstruction of left internal carotid. Dr. X saw him in consultation and recommended CT angiogram. This showed no significant obstructive lesion other than what was known on the ultrasound. Head MRI was done and revealed the above findings. The patient was begun on PT and improved. By discharge, he had much improved strength in his right arm. He had no further progressions. His cough improved with oral Zithromax and nebulizer treatments. His platelets also improved as well. By discharge, his platelets was up to 107,000. His H&H was stable at 41.7 and 14.6 and his white count was 4300 with a normal differential. Chest x-ray revealed a mild elevated right hemidiaphragm, but no infiltrate. Last chemistry panel on December 5, 2003, sodium 137, potassium 4.0, chloride 106, CO2 23, glucose 88, BUN 17, creatinine 0.7, calcium was 9.1. PT/INR on admission was 1.03, PTT 34.7. At the time of discharge, the patient's cough was much improved. His right arm weakness has much improved. His lung examination has just occasional rhonchi. He was changed to a metered dose inhaler with albuterol. He is being discharged home. An echocardiogram revealed mild concentric LVH with normal left ventricular function with an EF of 57%, moderate left atrial enlargement and diastolic dysfunction with mild mitral regurgitation. He will follow up in my office in 1 week. He is to start PT and OT as an outpatient. He is to avoid driving his car. He is to notify, if further symptoms. He has 2 more doses of Zithromax at home, he will complete. His prognosis is good."
"HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 61-year-old female who was treated with CyberKnife therapy to a right upper lobe stage IA non-small cell lung cancer. CyberKnife treatment was completed one month ago. She is now being seen for her first post-CyberKnife treatment visit.Since undergoing CyberKnife treatment, she has had low-level nausea without vomiting. She continues to have pain with deep inspiration and resolving dysphagia. She has no heartburn, cough, hemoptysis, rash, or palpable rib pain.MEDICATIONS: Dilantin 100 mg four times a day, phenobarbital 30 mg three times per day, levothyroxine 0.025 mg p.o. q. day, Tylenol with Codeine b.i.d., prednisone 5 mg p.r.n., citalopram 10 mg p.o. q. day, Spiriva q. day, Combivent inhaler p.r.n., omeprazole 20 mg p.o. q. day, Lidoderm patch every 12 hours, Naprosyn 375 mg p.o. b.i.d., oxaprozin 600 mg p.o. b.i.d., Megace 40 mg p.o. b.i.d., and Asacol p.r.n.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: BP: 122/86. Temp: 96.8. HR: 79. RR: 26. RAS: 100%.HEENT: Normocephalic. Pupils are equal and reactive to light and accommodation. EOMs intact.NECK: Supple without masses or lymphadenopathy.LUNGS: Clear to auscultation bilaterallyCARDIAC: Regular rate and rhythm without rubs, murmurs, or gallops.EXTREMITIES: No cyanosis, clubbing or edema.ASSESSMENT: The patient has done well with CyberKnife treatment of a stage IA non-small cell lung cancer, right upper lobe, one month ago.PLAN: She is to return to clinic in three months with a PET CT."
"INTERVAL HISTORY: ABC who is 10 years of age and carries a diagnosis of cystic fibrosis, seen in the clinic today for routine follow-up visit. He was accompanied by his adopted mother. He is attending the fourth grade and has not missed significant days for illness. He has a chronic cough that has been slightly increased for the prior 4 days. Sputum is not produced. Sinuses are described as clear. He is an eager eater, eating a regular diet of increased calorie and protein. He also was taking Resource just for kid juice boxes as well as chocolate milkmaid with half-and-half. Belly complaints are denied. He has 2 to 3 bowel movements per day. He does need a flu vaccine.MEDICATIONS: Albuterol premix via nebulizer as needed, albuterol MDI 2 puffs b.i.d., therapy Vest daily, Creon 20 two with meals and snacks, A-dec 2 tablets daily, Prevacid 15 mg daily, Advair 100/50 one inhalation twice daily, and MiraLax p.r.n.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:VITAL SIGNS: Respiratory rate 20 and pulse 91. Temperature is 100.0 per tympanic membrane. Oximetry is 98% on room air. Height is 128 cm, which is an increase of 1.0 cm from prior visit. Weight is 24.5 kg, which is an increase of 500 grams from prior visit.GENERAL: He is a cooperative school-aged boy in no apparent distress.HEENT: Tympanic membranes clear, throat with minimal postnasal drip.CHEST: Significant for 1+ hyperinflation. Lungs are auscultated with good air entry and clear breath sounds.CARDIAC: Regular sinus rhythm without murmur.ABDOMEN: Palpated as soft, without hepatosplenomegaly.EXTREMITIES: Not clubbed.CHART REVIEW: This chart was thoroughly reviewed prior to this conference by X, RN, BSN. Review of chart indicates that mother has good adherence to treatment plan indicated by medications being refilled in a timely fashion as well as clinic contact documented with appropriate concerns.DISCUSSION: PHYSICIAN: X did note that mother reported that the patient had discontinued the Pulmozyme due to CCS reasons. He is not sure what this would be since CCS Pulmozyme is a covered benefit on CCS for children with cystic fibrosis. This situation will be looked into with the hope of restarting soon. Other than that the patient seems to be doing well. A flu shot was given.NURSE: X, RN, BSN, did note that the patient was doing quite well. Reinforcement of current medication regime was supplied. No other needs identified at this time.RESPIRATORY CARE: X, RCP, did review appropriate sequencing of medications with the patient and family. Once again, she was concerned the lack of Pulmozyme due to mom stating CCS issues. At this time, they have increased the Vest use to twice daily and are doing 30-minute treatments.DIETICIAN: X, RD, CDE, notes that the patient is 89% of his ideal body weight, which is a nutritional failure per cystic fibrosis guidelines. This is despite the fact that he has an excellent appetite. Mom reports he is taking his enzymes consistently as well as vitamins. He does have problems meeting his goal for resource drinks per day. Since the patient has been struggling to gain weight this past year, we will need to monitor his nutritional status and weight trend very closely. A variety of additional high calorie items were discussed with mom.SOCIAL WORK: X, LCSW, notes that mom has recently gradually from respiratory therapy school and has accepted a position here at Children's Hospital. The patient is doing well in school. With the exception of issues with CCS authorization, there appears to be no pressing social needs at this time.IMPRESSION: 1. Cystic fibrosis.2. Poor nutritional status.PLAN: 1. Give flu vaccine 0.5 mg IM now, this was done.2. Continue all other medications and treatment.3. Evaluate/investigate rationale for no authorization of Pulmozyme with CCS.4. Needs to augment current high-calorie diet to give more nutrition. To follow advice by a dietician.5. Continue all the medication treatments before.6. To continue off and ongoing psychosocial nutritional counseling as necessary."
"PROCEDURES PERFORMED:1. DDDR permanent pacemaker.2. Insertion of a steroid-eluting screw in right atrial lead.3. Insertion of a steroid-eluting screw in right ventricular apical lead.4. Pulse generator insertion, model Sigma.SITE: Left subclavian vein access.INDICATION: The patient is a 73-year-old African-American female with symptomatic bradycardia and chronotropic incompetence with recurrent heart failure and symptoms of hypoperfusion, and for a Class 2a indication for a permanent pacemaker was ascertained.COMPLICATIONS: None.ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: Minimal.Risks, benefits, and alternatives of the procedure were all explained in detail to the patient and the patient's family at length. They all consented for the procedure, and the consent was signed and placed on the chart.PROCEDURE: The patient was taken to cardiac cath lab where she was monitored throughout all procedure. The area of the left pectoral deltoid and subclavian area was sterilely prepped and draped in the usual manner. We also scrubbed for approximately eight minutes. Using lidocaine with epinephrine, the area of the left pectoral deltoid region and subclavian area was then fully anesthetized. Using an #18 gauge Cook needle, the left subclavian vein was cannulated at two separate sites without difficulty, where two separate guidewires were inserted into the left subclavian vein. The Cook needles were removed. Then the guidewires were secured in place with hemostat. Using a #10 and #15 scalpel blade, a 5 cm horizontal incision was made in the left pectodeltoid groove, where the skin was dissected and blunted on to the pectoralis major muscle. The skin was then undermined making a pocket for the generator. The guidewires were then tunneled through the performed pocket. Subsequently, the atrial and ventricular leads were inserted through each one of the Cordis separately and respectively. Initially, the ventricular lead was inserted, where a Cordis sheath was placed and the guidewire was removed. After the thresholds and appropriate position was obtained for the ventricular lead, the Cordis sheath was then inserted for the atrial lead. After the atrial lead was inserted and appropriately placed and thresholds were obtained, the Cordis was removed and then both leads were sutured in place with pectoralis major muscle with #1-0 silk suture. The leads were then connected to a pulse generator. The pocket was then irrigated and cleansed, where then the leads and the generators were inserted into that pocket. The subcutaneous tissue was then closed with gut sutures and the skin was then closed with #4-0 polychrome sutures using a subcuticular uninterrupted technique. The area was then cleansed and dry. Steri-Strips and pressure dressing were applied. The patient tolerated the procedure well. There were no complications.Information on the pacemaker:The implanted device are as follows:PULSE GENERATORModel Name: Sigma.Model #: SDR203.Serial #: 123456.ATRIAL LEADModel #: 4568-45 cm.Serial #: 123456.RIGHT VENTRICULAR APICAL STEROID-eluting SCREW IN LEAD:Model #: 4068-52 cm.Serial #: 123456.STIMULATION THRESHOLDS ARE AS FOLLOWS:The right atrial chamber polarity is bipolar, pulse width is 0.50 milliseconds, 1.5 volts of voltage, 3.7 milliamps of current, 557 ohms of impedance, and P-wave sensing of 3.3 millivolts.The right ventricular polarity is bipolar, pulse width is 0.50 milliseconds, 0.7 volts of voltage, 1.4 milliamps of current, impedance of 700 ohms, and R-wave sensing of 14 millivolts.The brady parameter settings were set as follows:The atrial and ventricular appendages were set at 3.5 volts with 0.4 milliseconds of pulse width, atrial sensitivity of 0.5 with 180 milliseconds of blanking. Ventricular sensitivity was set at 2.8 with 28 milliseconds of blanking. The pacing mode was DDDR, mode switch was on lower rate of 70 and upper rate of 130.The patient tolerated the procedure well. There were no complications. The patient went to Recovery in satisfactory condition. Family was updated. Orders are all in the chart. Please see orders.Again, thank you for allowing to participate in this care."
"HISTORY: The patient is 14 months old, comes in with a chief complaint of difficulty breathing. Difficulty breathing began last night. He was taken to Emergency Department where he got some Xopenex, given a prescription for amoxicillin and discharged home. They were home for about an hour when he began to get worse and they drove here to Children's Hospital. He has a history of reactive airway disease. He has been seen here twice in the last month on 10/04/2007 and 10/20/2007, both times with some wheezing. He was diagnosed with pneumonia back on 06/12/2007 here in the Emergency Department but was not admitted at that time. He has been on albuterol off and on over that period. He has had fever overnight. No vomiting, no diarrhea. Increased work of breathing with retractions and audible wheezes noted and thus brought to the Emergency Department. Normal urine output. No rashes have been seen.PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: As noted above. No hospitalizations, surgeries, allergies.MEDICATIONS: Xopenex.IMMUNIZATIONS: Up-to-date.BIRTH HISTORY: The child was full term, no complications, home with mom. No surgeries.FAMILY HISTORY: Negative.SOCIAL HISTORY: No smokers or pets in the home. No ill contacts, no travel, no change in living condition.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Ten are asked, all are negative, except as noted above.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:VITAL SIGNS: Temp 37.1, pulse 158, respiratory rate 48, 84% on room air indicating hypoxia.GENERAL: The child is awake, alert, in moderate respiratory distress.HEENT: Pupils equal, round, reactive to light. Extraocular movements are intact. The TMs are clear. The nares show some dry secretions. Audible congestion and wheezing is noted. Mucous membranes are dry. Throat is clear. No oral lesions noted.NECK: Supple without lymphadenopathy or masses. Trachea is midline.LUNGS: Show inspiratory and expiratory wheezes in all fields. Audible wheezes are noted. There are intercostal and subcostal retractions and suprasternal muscle use is noted.HEART: Shows tachycardia. Regular rhythm. Normal S1, S2. No murmur.ABDOMEN: Soft, nontender. Positive bowel sounds. No guarding. No rebound. No hepatosplenomegaly.EXTREMITIES: Capillary refill is brisk. Good distal pulses.NEUROLOGIC: Cranial nerves II through XII intact. Moves all 4 extremities equally and normally.HOSPITAL COURSE: The child has an IV placed. I felt the child was dehydrated on examination. We gave 20 mL/kg bolus of normal saline over one hour. The child was given Solu-Medrol 2 mg/kg IV. He was initially started on unit dose albuterol and Atrovent but high-dose albuterol for continuous nebulization was ordered.A portable chest x-ray was done showing significant peribronchial thickening bilaterally. Normal heart size. No evidence of pneumothorax. No evidence of focal pneumonia. After 3 unit dose of albuterol/Atrovent breathing treatments, there was much better air exchange bilaterally but still with inspiratory/expiratory wheezes and high-dose continuous albuterol was started at that time. The child was monitored closely while on high-dose albuterol and slowly showed improvement resulting in only expiratory wheezes after one hour. The child's pulse ox on breathing treatments with 100% oxygen was 100%. Respiratory rate remained about 40 to 44 breaths per minute indicating tachypnea. The child's color improved with oxygen therapy, and the capillary refill was always less than 2 seconds.The child has failed outpatient therapy at this time. After 90 minutes of continuous albuterol treatment, the child still has expiratory wheezes throughout. After I removed the oxygen, the pulse ox was down at 91% indicating hypoxia. The child has a normal level of alertness; however, has not had any vomiting here. I spoke with Dr. X, on call for hospitalist service. She has come down and evaluated the patient. We both feel that since this child had two ER visits this last month, one previous ER visit within the last 5 hours, we should admit the child for continued albuterol treatments, IV steroids, and asthma teaching for the family. The child is admitted in a stable condition.DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSES: Ruled out pneumothorax, pneumonia, bronchiolitis, croup.TIME SPENT: Critical care time outside billable procedures was 45 minutes with this patient.IMPRESSION: Status asthmaticus, hypoxia.PLAN: Admitted to Pediatrics."
"REASON FOR VISIT: I have been asked to see this 63-year-old man with a dilated cardiomyopathy by Dr. X at ABCD Hospital. He presents with a chief complaint of heart failure.HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: In retrospect, he has had symptoms for the past year of heart failure. He feels in general \"\"OK,\"\" but is stressed and fatigued. He works hard running 3 companies. He has noted shortness of breath with exertion and occasional shortness of breath at rest. There has been some PND, but he sleeps on 1 pillow. He has no edema now, but has had some mild leg swelling in the past. There has never been any angina and he denies any palpitations, syncope or near syncope. When he takes his pulse, he notes some irregularity. He follows no special diet. He gets no regular exercise, although he has recently started walking for half an hour a day. Over the course of the past year, these symptoms have been slowly getting worse. He gained about 20 pounds over the past year.There is no prior history of either heart failure or other heart problems.His past medical history is remarkable for a right inguinal hernia repair done in 1982. He had trauma to his right thumb. There is no history of high blood pressure, diabetes mellitus or heart murmur.On social history, he lives in San Salvador with his wife. He has a lot of stress in his life. He does not smoke, but does drink. He has high school education.On family history, mother is alive at age 89. Father died at 72 of heart attack. He has 2 brothers and 1 sister all of whom are healthy, although the oldest suffered a myocardial infarction. He has 3 healthy girls and 9 healthy grandchildren.A complete review of systems was performed and is negative aside from what is mentioned in the history of present illness.MEDICATIONS: Aspirin 81 mg daily and chlordiazepoxide and clidinium - combination pill at 5 mg/2.5 mg 1 tablet daily for stress.ALLERGIES: Denied.MAJOR FINDINGS: On my comprehensive cardiovascular examination, he is 5 feet 8 inches and weighs 231 pounds. His blood pressure is 120/70 in each arm seated. His pulse is 80 beats per minute and regular. He is breathing 1two times per minute and that is unlabored. Eyelids are normal. Pupils are round and reactive to light. Conjunctivae are clear and sclerae are anicteric. There is no oral thrush or central cyanosis. Neck is supple and symmetrical without adenopathy or thyromegaly. Jugular venous pressure is normal. Carotids are brisk without bruits. Lungs are clear to auscultation and percussion. The precordium is quiet. The rhythm is regular. The first and second heart sounds are normal. He does have a fourth heart sound and a soft systolic murmur. The precordial impulse is enlarged. Abdomen is soft without hepatosplenomegaly or masses. He has no clubbing, cyanosis or peripheral edema. Distal pulses are normal throughout both arms and both legs. On neurologic examination, his mentation is normal. His mood and affect are normal. He is oriented to person, place, and time.DATA: His EKG shows sinus rhythm with left ventricular hypertrophy.A metabolic stress test shows that he was able to exercise for 5 minutes and 20 seconds to 90% of his maximum predicted heart rate. His peak oxygen consumption was 19.7 mL/kg/min, which is consistent with mild cardiopulmonary disease.Laboratory data shows his TSH to be 1.33. His glucose is 97 and creatinine 0.9. Potassium is 4.3. He is not anemic. Urinalysis was normal.I reviewed his echocardiogram personally. This shows a dilated cardiomyopathy with EF of 15%. The left ventricular diastolic dimension is 6.8 cm. There are no significant valvular abnormalities.He had a stress thallium. His heart rate response to stress was appropriate. The thallium images showed no scintigraphic evidence of stress-induced myocardial ischemia at 91% of his maximum age predicted heart rate. There is a fixed small sized mild-to-moderate intensity perfusion defect in the distal inferior wall and apex, which may be an old infarct, but certainly does not account for the degree of cardiomyopathy. We got his post-stress EF to be 33% and the left ventricular cavity appeared to be enlarged. The total calcium score will put him in the 56 percentile for subjects of the same age, gender, and race/ethnicity.ASSESSMENTS: This appears to be a newly diagnosed dilated cardiomyopathy, the etiology of which is uncertain.PROBLEMS DIAGNOSES: 1. Dilated cardiomyopathy.2. Dyslipidemia.PROCEDURES AND IMMUNIZATIONS: None today.PLANS: I started him on an ACE inhibitor, lisinopril 2.5 mg daily, and a beta-blocker, carvedilol 3.125 mg twice daily. The dose of these drugs should be up-titrated every 2 weeks to a target dose of lisinopril of 20 mg daily and carvedilol 25 mg twice daily. In addition, he could benefit from a loop diuretic such as furosemide. I did not start this as he is planning to go back home to San Salvador tomorrow. I will leave that up to his local physicians to up-titrate the medications and get him started on some furosemide.In terms of the dilated cardiomyopathy, there is not much further that needs to be done, except for family screening. All of his siblings and his children should have an EKG and an echocardiogram to make sure they have not developed the same thing. There is a strong genetic component of this.I will see him again in 3 to 6 months, whenever he can make it back here. He does not need a defibrillator right now and my plan would be to get him on the right doses of the right medications and then recheck an echocardiogram 3 months later. If his LV function has not improved, he does have New York Heart Association Class II symptoms and so he would benefit from a prophylactic ICD.Thank you for asking me to participate in his care.MEDICATION CHANGES: See the above."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Subglottic stenosis.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Subglottic stenosis.OPERATIVE PROCEDURES: Direct laryngoscopy and bronchoscopy.ANESTHESIA: General inhalation.DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: The patient was taken to the operating room and placed supine on the operative table. General inhalational anesthesia was administered through the patient's tracheotomy tube. The small Parsons laryngoscope was inserted and the 2.9-mm telescope was used to inspect the airway. There was an estimated 60-70% circumferential mature subglottic stenosis that extended from just under the vocal folds to approximately 3 mm below the vocal folds. The stoma showed some suprastomal fibroma. The remaining tracheobronchial passages were clear. The patient's 3.5 neonatal tracheostomy tube was repositioned and secured with Velcro ties. Bleeding was negligible. There were no untoward complications. The patient tolerated the procedure well and was transferred to recovery room in stable condition."
"DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:1. Acute respiratory failure, resolved.2. Severe bronchitis leading to acute respiratory failure, improving.3. Acute on chronic renal failure, improved.4. Severe hypertension, improved.5. Diastolic dysfunction.X-ray on discharge did not show any congestion and pro-BNP is normal.SECONDARY DIAGNOSES:1. Hyperlipidemia.2. Recent evaluation and treatment, including cardiac catheterization, which did not show any coronary artery disease.3. Remote history of carcinoma of the breast.4. Remote history of right nephrectomy.5. Allergic rhinitis.HOSPITAL COURSE: This 83-year-old patient had some cold symptoms, was treated as bronchitis with antibiotics. Not long after the patient returned from Mexico, the patient started having progressive shortness of breath, came to the emergency room with severe bilateral wheezing and crepitations. X-rays however did not show any congestion or infiltrates and pro-BNP was within normal limits. The patient however was hypoxic and required 4L nasal cannula. She was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit. The patient improved remarkably over the night on IV steroids and empirical IV Lasix. Initial swab was positive for MRSA colonization.Discussed with infectious disease, Dr. X and it was decided no treatment was required for de-colonization. The patient's breathing has improved. There is no wheezing or crepitations and O2 saturation is 91% on room air. The patient is yet to go for exercise oximetry. Her main complaint is nasal congestion and she is now on steroid nasal spray. The patient was seen by Cardiology, Dr. Z, who advised continuation of beta blockers for diastolic dysfunction. The patient has been weaned off IV steroids and is currently on oral steroids, which she will be on for seven days.DISPOSITION: The patient has been discharged home.DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:1. Metoprolol 25 mg p.o. b.i.d.2. Simvastatin 20 mg p.o. daily.NEW MEDICATIONS:1. Prednisone 20 mg p.o. daily for seven days.2. Flonase nasal spray daily for 30 days.Results for oximetry pending to evaluate the patient for need for home oxygen.FOLLOW UP: The patient will follow up with Pulmonology, Dr. Y in one week's time and with cardiologist, Dr. X in two to three weeks' time."
"PROCEDURES:1. Chest x-ray on admission, no acute finding, no interval change.2. CT angiography, negative for pulmonary arterial embolism.3. Nuclear myocardial perfusion scan, abnormal. Reversible defect suggestive of ischemia, ejection fraction of 55%.DIAGNOSES ON DISCHARGE:1. Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease exacerbation improving, on steroids and bronchodilators.2. Coronary artery disease, abnormal nuclear scan, discussed with Cardiology Dr. X, who recommended to discharge the patient and follow up in the clinic.3. Diabetes mellitus type 2.4. Anemia, hemoglobin and hematocrit stable.5. Hypokalemia, replaced.6. History of coronary artery disease status post stent placement 2006-2008.7. Bronchitis.HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient is a 65-year-old American-native Indian male, past medical history of heavy tobacco use, history of diabetes mellitus type 2, chronic anemia, COPD, coronary artery disease status post stent placement, who presented in the emergency room with increasing shortness of breath, cough productive for sputum, and orthopnea. The patient started on IV steroid, bronchodilator as well as antibiotics.He also complained of chest pain that appears to be more pleuritic with history of coronary artery disease and orthopnea. He was evaluated by Cardiology Dr. X, who proceeded with stress test. Stress test reported positive for reversible ischemia, but Cardiology decided to follow up the patient in the clinic. The patient's last cardiac cath was in 2008.The patient clinically significantly improved and wants to go home. His hemoglobin on admission was 8.8, and has remained stable. He is afebrile, hemodynamically stable.ALLERGIES: LISINOPRIL AND PENICILLIN.MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE:1. Prednisone tapering dose 40 mg p.o. daily for three days, then 30 mg p.o. daily for three days, then 20 mg p.o. daily for three days, then 10 mg p.o. daily for three days, and 5 mg p.o. daily for two days.2. Levaquin 750 mg p.o. daily for 5 more days.3. Protonix 40 mg p.o. daily.4. The patient can continue other current home medications at home.FOLLOWUP APPOINTMENTS:1. Recommend to follow up with Cardiology Dr. X's office in a week.2. The patient is recommended to see Hematology Dr. Y in the office for workup of anemia.3. Follow up with primary care physician's office tomorrow.SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS:1. If increasing shortness of breath, chest pain, fever, any acute symptoms to return to emergency room.2. Discussed about discharge plan, instructions with the patient by bedside. He understands and agreed. Also discussed discharge plan instructions with the patient's nurse."
"ADMITTING DIAGNOSES:1. Respiratory distress.2. Reactive airways disease.DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:1. Respiratory distress.2. Reactive airways disease.3. Pneumonia.HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 3-year-old boy previously healthy who has never had a history of asthma or reactive airways disease who presented with a 36-hour presentation of URI symptoms, then had an abrupt onset of cough and increased work of breathing. Child was brought to Children's Hospital and received nebulized treatments in the ER and the Hospitalist Service was contacted regarding admission. The patient was seen and admitted through the emergency room.He was placed on the hospitalist system and was started on continuous nebulized albuterol secondary to his respiratory distress. He also received inhaled as well as systemic corticosteroids. An x-ray was without infiltrate on initial review by the hospitalist, but there was a right upper lobe infiltrate versus atelectasis per the official radiology reading. The patient was not started on any antibiotics and his fever resolved. However, the CRP was relatively elevated at 6.7. The CBC was normal with a white count of 9.6; however, the bands were 84%. Given these results, which she is to treat the pneumonia as bacterial and discharge the child with amoxicillin and Zithromax.He was taken off of continuous and he was not on room air all night. In the morning, he still had some bilateral wheezing, but no tachypnea.DISCHARGE PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: GENERAL: No acute distress, running around the room.HEENT: Oropharynx moist and clear.NECK: Supple without lymphadenopathy, thyromegaly or masses.CHEST: Bilateral basilar wheezing. No distress.CARDIOVASCULAR: Regular rate and rhythm. No murmurs noted. Well perfused peripherally.ABDOMEN: Bowel sounds present. The abdomen is soft. There is no hepatosplenomegaly, no masses. Nontender to palpation.GENITOURINARY: Deferred.EXTREMITIES: Warm and well perfused.DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS: As follows:1. Activity, regular.2. Diet is regular.3. Follow up with Dr. X in 2 days.DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:1. Xopenex MDI 2 puffs every 4 hours for 2 days and then as needed for cough or wheeze.2. QVAR 40, 2 puffs twice daily until otherwise instructed by the primary care provider.3. Amoxicillin 550 mg p.o. twice daily for 10 days.4. Zithromax 150 mg p.o. on day 1, then 75 mg p.o. daily for 4 more days.Total time for this discharge 37 minutes."
"DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:1. Respiratory failure improved.2. Hypotension resolved.3. Anemia of chronic disease stable.4. Anasarca improving.5. Protein malnourishment improving.6. End-stage liver disease.HISTORY AND HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted after undergoing a drawn out process with a small bowel obstruction. His bowel function started to improve. He was on TPN prior to coming to Hospital. He has remained on TPN throughout his time here, but his appetite and his p.o. intake have improved some. The patient had an episode while here where his blood pressure bottomed out requiring him to spend multiple days in the Intensive Care Unit on dopamine. At one point, we were unsuccessful at weaning him off the dopamine, but after approximately 11 days, he finally started to tolerate weaning parameters, was successfully removed from dopamine, and has maintained his blood pressure without difficulty. The patient also was requiring BiPAP to help with his oxygenation and it appeared that he developed a left-sided pneumonia. This has been treated successfully with Zyvox and Levaquin and Diflucan. He seems to be currently doing much better. He is only using BiPAP in the evening. As stated above, he is eating better. He had some evidence of redness and exquisite swelling around his genital and lower abdominal region. This may be mainly dependent edema versus anasarca. The patient has been diuresed aggressively over the last 4 to 5 days, and this seems to have made some improvement in his swelling. This morning, the patient denies any acute distress. He states he is feeling good and understands that he is being discharged to another facility for continued care and rehabilitation. He will be discharged to Garden Court skilled nursing facility.DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS/INSTRUCTIONS: He is going to be going with Protonix 40 mg daily, metoclopramide 10 mg every 6 hours, Zyvox 600 mg daily for 5 days, Diflucan 150 mg p.o. daily for 3 days, Bumex 2 mg p.o. daily, Megace 400 mg p.o. b.i.d., Ensure 1 can t.i.d. with meals, and MiraLax 17 gm p.o. daily. The patient is going to require physical therapy to help with assistance in strength training. He is also going to need respiratory care to work with his BiPAP. His initial settings are at a rate of 20, pressure support of 12, PEEP of 6, FIO2 of 40%. The patient will need a sleep study, which the nursing home will be able to set up.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:VITAL SIGNS: On the day of discharge, heart rate 99, respiratory rate 20, blood pressure 102/59, temperature 98.2, O2 sat 97%.GENERAL: A well-developed white male who appears in no apparent distress.HEENT: Unremarkable.CARDIOVASCULAR: Positive S1, S2 without murmur, rubs, or gallops.LUNGS: Clear to auscultation bilaterally without wheezes or crackles.ABDOMEN: Positive for bowel sounds. Soft, nondistended. He does have some generalized redness around his abdominal region and groin. This does appear improved compared to presentation last week. The swelling in this area also appears improved.EXTREMITIES: Show no clubbing or cyanosis. He does have some lower extremity edema, 2+ distal pedal pulses are present.NEUROLOGIC: The patient is alert and oriented to person and place. He is alert and aware of surroundings. We have not had any difficulties with confusion here lately.MUSCULOSKELETAL: The patient moves all extremities without difficulty. He is just weak in general.LABORATORY DATA: Lab work done today shows the following: White count 4.2, hemoglobin 10.2, hematocrit 30.6, and platelet count 184,000. Electrolytes show sodium 139, potassium 4.1, chloride 98, CO2 26, glucose 79, BUN 56, and creatinine 1.4. Calcium 8.8, phosphorus is a little high at 5.5, magnesium 2.2, albumin 3.9.PLAN: Discharge this gentleman from Hospital and admit him to Garden Court SNF where they can continue with his rehab and conditioning. Hopefully, long-term planning will be discharge home. He has a history of end-stage liver disease with cirrhosis, which may make him a candidate for hospice upon discharge. The family initially wanted to bring the patient home, but he is too weak and requires too much assistance to adequately consider this option at this time."
"EXAM: Dobutamine Stress Test.INDICATION: Chest pain.TYPE OF TEST: Dobutamine stress test, as the patient was unable to walk on a treadmill, and allergic to adenosine.INTERPRETATION: Resting heart rate of 66 and blood pressure of 88/45. EKG, normal sinus rhythm. Post dobutamine increment dose, his peak heart rate achieved was 125, which is 87% of the target heart rate. Blood pressure 120/42. EKG remained the same. No symptoms were noted.IMPRESSION:1. Nondiagnostic dobutamine stress test.2. Nuclear interpretation as below.NUCLEAR INTERPRETATION: Resting and stress images were obtained with 10.8, 30.2 mCi of tetrofosmin injected intravenously by standard protocol. Nuclear myocardial perfusion scan demonstrates homogeneous and uniform distribution of the tracer uptake without any evidence of reversible or fixed defect. Gated and SPECT revealed normal wall motion and ejection fraction of 75%. End-diastolic volume was 57 and end-systolic volume of 12.IMPRESSION:1. Normal nuclear myocardial perfusion scan.2. Ejection fraction of 75% by gated SPECT."
"DOBUTAMINE STRESS ECHOCARDIOGRAMREASON FOR EXAM: Chest discomfort, evaluation for coronary artery disease.PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: The patient was brought to the cardiac center. Cardiac images at rest were obtained in the parasternal long and short axis, apical four and apical two views followed by starting with a dobutamine drip in the usual fashion at 10 mcg/kg per minute for low dose, increased every 2 to 3 minutes by 10 mcg/kg per minute. The patient maximized at 30 mcg/kg per minute. Images were obtained at that level after adding 0.7 mg of atropine to reach maximal heart rate of 145. Maximal images were obtained in the same windows of parasternal long and short axis, apical four and apical two windows.Wall motion assessed at all levels as well as at recovery.The patient got nauseated, had some mild shortness of breath. No angina during the procedure and the maximal amount of dobutamine was 30 mcg/kg per minute.The resting heart rate was 78 with the resting blood pressure 186/98. Heart rate reduced by the vasodilator effects of dobutamine to 130/80. Maximal heart rate achieved was 145, which is 85% of age-predicted heart rate.The EKG at rest showed sinus rhythm with no ST-T wave depression suggestive of ischemia or injury. Incomplete right bundle-branch block was seen. The maximal stress test EKG showed sinus tachycardia. There was subtle upsloping ST depression in III and aVF, which is a normal response to the tachycardia with dobutamine, but no significant depression suggestive of ischemia and no ST elevation seen.No ventricular tachycardia or ventricular ectopy seen during the test. The heart rate recovered in a normal fashion after using metoprolol 5 mg.The heart images were somewhat suboptimal to evaluate because of obesity and some problems with the short axis windows mainly at peak exercise.The EF at rest appeared to be normal at 55 to 60 with normal wall motion including anterior, anteroseptal, inferior, lateral, and septal walls at low dose. All walls mentioned were augmented in a normal fashion. At maximum dose, all walls were augmented on all views except for the short axis was foreshortened, was uncertain about the anterolateral wall at peak exercise; however, of the other views, the lateral wall was showing normal thickening and normal augmentation. EF improved to about 70%.The wall motion score was unchanged.IMPRESSION:1. Maximal dobutamine stress echocardiogram test achieving more than 85% of age-predicted heart rate.2. Negative EKG criteria for ischemia.3. Normal augmentation at low and maximum stress test with some uncertainty about the anterolateral wall in peak exercise only on the short axis view. This is considered the negative dobutamine stress echocardiogram test, medical management."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Metastatic glossal carcinoma, needing chemotherapy and a port.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Metastatic glossal carcinoma, needing chemotherapy and a port.PROCEDURES1. Open exploration of the left subclavian/axillary vein.2. Insertion of a double lumen port through the left femoral vein, radiological guidance.DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: After obtaining the informed consent, the patient was electively taken to the operating room, where he underwent a general anesthetic through his tracheostomy. The left deltopectoral and cervical areas were prepped and draped in the usual fashion. Local anesthetic was infiltrated in the area. There was some evidence that surgical procedure had happened in the area nearby and also there was collateral venous circulation under the skin, which made us suspicious that may be __________, but at any rate I tried to cannulate it subcutaneously and I was unsuccessful. Therefore, I proceeded to make an incision and was able to isolate the vein, which would look very sclerotic. I tried to cannulate it, but I could not advance the wire.At that moment, I decided that there was no way we are going to put a port though that area. I packed the incision and we prepped and redraped the patient including both groins. Local anesthetic was infiltrated and then the left femoral vein was percutaneously cannulated without any difficulty. The introducer was placed and then a wire and then the catheter of the double lumen port, which had been trimmed to position it near the heart. It was done with radiological guidance. Again, I was able to position the catheter in the junction of inferior vena cava and right atrium. The catheter was looked upwards and the double lumen port was inserted subcutaneously towards the iliac area. The port had been aspirated satisfactorily and irrigated with heparin solution. The drain incision was closed in layers including subcuticular suture with Monocryl. Then, we went up to the left shoulder and closed that incision in layers. Dressings were applied.The patient tolerated the procedure well and was sent back to recovery room in satisfactory condition."
"REFERRAL INDICATIONS1. Pacemaker at ERI.2. History AV block.PROCEDURES PLANNED AND PERFORMED: Dual chamber generator replacement.FLUOROSCOPY TIME: 0 minutes.MEDICATION AT THE TIME OF STUDY1. Ancef 1 g.2. Versed 2 mg.3. Fentanyl 50 mcg.CLINICAL HISTORY: The patient is a pleasant patient who presented to the office, recently was found to be at ERI and she has been referred for generator replacement.RISKS AND BENEFITS: Risks, benefits, and alternatives to generator replacement have been discussed with the patient. Risks including but not limited to bleeding, infection, vascular injury, and the need for pacemaker upgrade were discussed with the patient. The patient agreed both verbally and via written consent.DESCRIPTION OF OPERATION: The patient was transported to the cardiac catheterization laboratory in a fasting state. The region of the left dorsal pectoral groove was prepped and draped in a usual sterile manner. Lidocaine 1% (20 mL) was administered to the area of the previous incision. A transverse incision was made through the skin and subcutaneous tissue. Hemostasis was achieved with electrocautery. Using blunt dissection, pacemaker, and leads were removed from the pocket. Leads were disconnected from the pulse generator and interrogated. The pocket was washed with antibiotic impregnated saline. The new pulse generator was obtained and connected securely to the leads and placed back in the pocket. The pocket was then closed with 2-0, 3-0, and 4-0 Vicryl using running stitch. Sponge and needle counts were correct at the end of the procedure. No acute complications were noted.DEVICE DATA1. Explanted pulse generator Medronic, product # KDR601, serial # ABCD1234.2. New pulse generator Medronic, product # ADDR01, serial # ABCD1234.3. Right atrial lead, product # 4068, serial # ABCD1234.4. Right atrial lead, product # 4068, serial # ABCD1234.MEASURED INTRAOPERATIVE DATA1. Right atrial lead impedance 572 ohms. P wave measure 3.7 mV, pacing threshold 1.5 volts at 0.5 msec.2. Right ventricular lead impedance 365 ohms. No R waves to measure, pacing threshold 0.9 volts at 0.5 msec.CONCLUSIONS1. Successful dual chamber generator replacement.2. No acute complications.PLAN1. She will be monitored for 3 hours and then dismissed home.2. Resume all medications. Ex-home dismissal instructions.3. Doxycycline 100 mg one p.o. twice daily for 7 days.4. Wound check in 7-10 days.5. Continue followup in device clinic."
"PROCEDURE:1. Implantation, dual chamber ICD.2. Fluoroscopy.3. Defibrillation threshold testing.4. Venography.PROCEDURE NOTE: After informed consent was obtained, the patient was taken to the operating room. The patient was prepped and draped in a sterile fashion. Using modified Seldinger technique, the left subclavian vein was attempted to be punctured but unsuccessfully. Approximately 10 cc of intravenous contrast was injected into the left upper extremity peripheral vein. Venogram was then performed. Under fluoroscopy via modified Seldinger technique, the left subclavian vein was punctured and a guidewire was passed through the vein into the superior vena cava, then the right atrium and then into the inferior vena cava. A second guidewire was placed in a similar fashion. Approximately a 5 cm incision was made in the left upper anterior chest. The skin and subcutaneous tissue was dissected out of the prepectoral fascia. Both guide wires were brought into the pocket area. A sheath was placed over the lateral guidewire and fluoroscopically guided to the vena cava. The dilator and guidewire were removed. A Fixation ventricular lead, under fluoroscopic guidance, was placed through the sheath into the superior vena cava, right atrium and then right ventricle. Using straight and curved stylettes, it was placed in position and screwed into the right ventricular apex. After pacing and sensing parameters were established in the lead, the collar on the lead was sutured to the pectoral muscle with Ethibond suture. A guide sheath was placed over the guidewire and fluoroscopically placed in the superior vena cava. The dilator and guidewire were removed. An Active Fixation atrial lead was fluoroscopically passed through the sheath, into the superior vena cava and then the right atrium. Using straight and J-shaped stylettes, it was placed in the appropriate position and screwed in the right atrial appendage area. After significant pacing parameters were established in the lead, the collar on the lead was sutured to the pectoral muscles with Ethibond suture. The tract was flushed with saline solution. A Medtronic pulse generator was attached to both the leads and fixed to the pectoral muscle with Ethibond suture. Deep and superficial layers were closed with 3-0 Vicryl in a running fashion. Steri-strips were placed over the incision. Tegaderm was placed over the Steri-strips. Pressure dressing was applied to the pocket area."
"DUPLEX ULTRASOUND OF LEGSRIGHT LEG: Duplex imaging was carried out according to normal protocol with a 7.5 Mhz imaging probe using B-mode ultrasound. Deep veins were imaged at the level of the common femoral and popliteal veins. All deep veins demonstrated compressibility without evidence of intraluminal thrombus or increased echogenicity.The long saphenous system displayed compressibility without evidence of thrombosis. The long saphenous vein measured * cm at the proximal thigh with reflux of * seconds after release of distal compression and * cm at the knee with reflux of * seconds after release of distal compression. The small saphenous system measured * cm at the proximal calf with reflux of * seconds after release of distal compression.LEFT LEG: Duplex imaging was carried out according to normal protocol with a 7.5 Mhz imaging probe using B-mode ultrasound. Deep veins were imaged at the level of the common femoral and popliteal veins. All deep veins demonstrated compressibility without evidence of intraluminal thrombus or increased echogenicity.The long saphenous system displayed compressibility without evidence of thrombosis. The long saphenous vein measured * cm at the proximal thigh with reflux of * seconds after release of distal compression and * cm at the knee with reflux of * seconds after release of distal compression. The small saphenous system measured * cm at the proximal calf with reflux of * seconds after release of distal compression."
"REASON FOR EXAMINATION: Cardiac arrhythmia.INTERPRETATION: No significant pericardial effusion was identified.The aortic root dimensions are within normal limits. The four cardiac chambers dimensions are within normal limits. No discrete regional wall motion abnormalities are identified. The left ventricular systolic function is preserved with an estimated ejection fraction of 60%. The left ventricular wall thickness is within normal limits.The aortic valve is trileaflet with adequate excursion of the leaflets. The mitral valve and tricuspid valve motion is unremarkable. The pulmonic valve is not well visualized.Color flow and conventional Doppler interrogation of cardiac valvular structures revealed mild mitral regurgitation and mild tricuspid regurgitation with an RV systolic pressure calculated to be 28 mmHg. Doppler interrogation of the mitral in-flow pattern is within normal limits for age.IMPRESSION:1. Preserved left ventricular systolic function.2. Mild mitral regurgitation.3. Mild tricuspid regurgitation."
"EXAM: Echocardiogram.INTERPRETATION: Echocardiogram was performed including 2-D and M-mode imaging, Doppler analysis continuous wave and pulse echo outflow velocity mapping was all seen in M-mode. Cardiac chamber dimensions, left atrial enlargement 4.4 cm. Left ventricle, right ventricle, and right atrium are grossly normal. LV wall thickness and wall motion appeared normal. LV ejection fraction is estimated at 65%. Aortic root and cardiac valves appeared normal. No evidence of pericardial effusion. No evidence of intracardiac mass or thrombus. Doppler analysis outflow velocity through the aortic valve normal, inflow velocities through the mitral valve are normal. There is mild tricuspid regurgitation. Calculated pulmonary systolic pressure 42 mmHg.ECHOCARDIOGRAPHIC DIAGNOSES:1. LV Ejection fraction, estimated at 65%.2. Mild left atrial enlargement.3. Mild tricuspid regurgitation.4. Mildly elevated pulmonary systolic pressure."
"EXAM: Echocardiogram.INDICATION: Aortic stenosis.INTERPRETATION: Transthoracic echocardiogram was performed of adequate technical quality. Left ventricle reveals concentric hypertrophy with normal size and dimensions and normal function. Ejection fraction is 60% without any obvious wall motion abnormality. Left atrium and right side chambers are of normal size and dimensions. Aortic root has normal diameter.Mitral and tricuspid valves are structurally normal except for minimal annular calcification. Valvular leaflet excursion is adequate. Aortic valve reveals annular calcification. Fibrocalcific valve leaflets with decreased excursion. Atrial and ventricular septum are intact. Pericardium is intact without any effusion. No obvious intracardiac mass or thrombi noted.Doppler reveals mild mitral regurgitation, mild-to-moderate tricuspid regurgitation. Estimated pulmonary pressure of 48. Systolic consistent with mild-to-moderate pulmonary hypertension. Peak velocity across the aortic valve is 3.0 with a peak gradient of 37, mean gradient of 19, valve area calculated at 1.1 sq. cm consistent with moderate aortic stenosis.IN SUMMARY:1. Concentric hypertrophy of the left ventricle with normal function.2. Doppler study as above, most pronounced being moderate aortic stenosis, valve area of 1.1 sq. cm."
"REASON FOR EXAM:1. Angina.2. Coronary artery disease.INTERPRETATION: This is a technically acceptable study.DIMENSIONS: Anterior septal wall 1.2, posterior wall 1.2, left ventricular end diastolic 6.0, end systolic 4.7. The left atrium is 3.9.FINDINGS: Left atrium was mildly to moderately dilated. No masses or thrombi were seen. The left ventricle was mildly dilated with mainly global hypokinesis, more prominent in the inferior septum and inferoposterior wall. The EF was moderately reduced with estimated EF of 40% with near normal thickening. The right atrium was mildly dilated. The right ventricle was normal in size.Mitral valve showed to be structurally normal with no prolapse or vegetation. There was mild mitral regurgitation on color flow interrogation. The mitral inflow pattern was consistent with pseudonormalization or grade 2 diastolic dysfunction. The aortic valve appeared to be structurally normal. Normal peak velocity. No significant AI. Pulmonic valve showed mild PI. Tricuspid valve showed mild tricuspid regurgitation. Based on which, the right ventricular systolic pressure was estimated to be mildly elevated at 40 to 45 mmHg. Anterior septum appeared to be intact. No pericardial effusion was seen.CONCLUSION:1. Mild biatrial enlargement.2. Normal thickening of the left ventricle with mildly dilated ventricle and EF of 40%.3. Mild mitral regurgitation.4. Diastolic dysfunction grade 2.5. Mild pulmonary hypertension."
"REASON FOR EXAM: CVA.INDICATIONS: CVA.This is technically acceptable. There is some limitation related to body habitus.DIMENSIONS: The interventricular septum 1.2, posterior wall 10.9, left ventricular end-diastolic 5.5, and end-systolic 4.5, the left atrium 3.9.FINDINGS: The left atrium was mildly dilated. No masses or thrombi were seen. The left ventricle showed borderline left ventricular hypertrophy with normal wall motion and wall thickening, EF of 60%. The right atrium and right ventricle are normal in size.Mitral valve showed mitral annular calcification in the posterior aspect of the valve. The valve itself was structurally normal. No vegetations seen. No significant MR. Mitral inflow pattern was consistent with diastolic dysfunction grade 1. The aortic valve showed minimal thickening with good exposure and coaptation. Peak velocity is normal. No AI.Pulmonic and tricuspid valves were both structurally normal.Interatrial septum was appeared to be intact in the views obtained. A bubble study was not performed.No pericardial effusion was seen. Aortic arch was not assessed.CONCLUSIONS:1. Borderline left ventricular hypertrophy with normal ejection fraction at 60%.2. Mitral annular calcification with structurally normal mitral valve.3. No intracavitary thrombi is seen.4. Interatrial septum was somewhat difficult to assess, but appeared to be intact on the views obtained."
"REASON FOR REFERRAL: Elevated BNP.HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 95-year-old Caucasian male visiting from out of state, admitted because of the fall and could not get up and has a cough with dark color sputum, now admitted with pneumonia and a fall and the patient's BNP level was high, for which Cardiology consult was requested. The patient denies any chest pain or shortness of breath. Chest x-ray and CAT scan shows possible pneumonia. The patient denies any prior history of coronary artery disease but has a history of hypertension.ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies.MEDICATIONS: At this time, he is on:1. Atrovent and albuterol nebulizers.2. Azithromycin.3. Potassium chloride 10 mEq p.o. daily.4. Furosemide 20 mg IV daily.5. Enoxaparin 40 mg daily.6. Lisinopril 10 mg p.o. daily.7. Ceftriaxone.PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: History of hypertension.PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: History of abdominal surgery.SOCIAL HISTORY: He does not smoke. Drinks occasionally.FAMILY HISTORY: Noncontributory.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Denies chest pain, PND, or orthopnea. He has cough. No fever. No abdominal pain. No syncope, near-syncope, or palpitation. All other systems were reviewed.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:GENERAL: The patient is comfortable, not in distress.VITAL SIGNS: His blood pressure is 118/50, pulse rate 76, respiratory rate 18, and temperature 98.1.HEENT: Atraumatic, normocephalic. Eyes PERRLA.NECK: Supple. No JVD. No carotid bruit.CHEST: Clear.HEART: S1 and S2, regular. No S3. No S4. No murmur.ABDOMEN: Soft, nontender. Positive bowel sounds.EXTREMITIES: No cyanosis, clubbing, or edema. Pulse 2+.CNS: Alert, awake, and oriented x3.DIAGNOSTIC DATA: EKG shows sinus tachycardia, nonspecific ST-T changes, nonspecific intraventricular conduction delay. CT chest shows bilateral pleural effusion, compressive atelectasis, pneumonic infiltrate noted in the right lower lobe. Loculated pleural effusion in the left upper lobe. No PE. Chest x-ray shows bilateral lower lobe patchy opacities concerning for atelectasis or pneumonia.LABORATORY DATA: Sodium 139, potassium 4.1, BUN 26, creatinine 0.9, BNP 331, troponin less than 0.05. White cell count 7.1, hemoglobin 11.5, hematocrit 35.2, platelet 195,000.ASSESSMENT:1. Pneumonia.2. Diastolic heart failure, not contributing to his present problem.3. Hypertension, controlled.4. History of falls.PLAN: We will continue IV low-dose diuretics, continue lisinopril, continue IV antibiotics. No further cardiac workup at this time."
"REASON FOR CONSULTATION: Abnormal cardiac enzyme profile.HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 66-year-old gentleman, was brought into emergency room with obtundation. The patient was mechanically ventilated originally. His initial diagnosis was septic shock. His labs showed elevated cardiac enzyme profile. This is a consultation for evaluation of the same. The patient is unable to give history. History obtained through the family members. As per the patient's son, he does not have history of cardiac disease. He lives in Utah, presently spending few months in Arizona. As I understand, he has been followed by a physician back in Utah and believes that he had some workup done from cardiac standpoint which has been negative so far. No prior history of chest pain, shortness of breath as per the family members.CORONARY RISK FACTORS: History of hypertension, no history of diabetes mellitus, ex-smoker, cholesterol status borderline elevated, no prior history of coronary artery disease, and family history noncontributory.FAMILY HISTORY: Nonsignificant.SURGICAL HISTORY: Foot surgery as per the family members.MEDICATIONS:1. Vitamin supplementation.2. Prednisone.3. Cyclobenzaprine.4. Losartan 50 mg daily.5. Nifedipine 90 mg daily.6. Lasix.7. Potassium supplementation.ALLERGIES: SULFA.PERSONAL HISTORY: He is an ex-smoker. Does not consume alcohol.PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Pulmonary fibrosis, on prednisone, oxygen-dependent cellulitis status post foot surgery with infection recuperating from the same. Presentation today with respiratory acidosis, septicemia and septic shock, presently on mechanical ventilation. No prior cardiac history. Elevated cardiac enzyme profile.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Limited.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:VITAL SIGNS: Pulse of 94, blood pressure 98/57, respiratory rate as per setting.HEENT: Atraumatic and normocephalic.NECK: Supple. Neck veins flat.LUNGS: Air entry bilaterally clear, rales are scattered.HEART: PMI displaced. S1, S2 regular. Systolic murmur, grade 2/6.ABDOMEN: Soft, nontender.EXTREMITIES: Chronic skin changes, markings in the lower extremities noted. Pulses found palpable. Dressing also noted.LABORATORY AND DIAGNOSTIC DATA: EKG, normal sinus rhythm with wide complex. Labs, white count of 20,000, H&H 10 and 33, platelets of 163, INR 1.36, BUN of 158, creatinine 8.7, potassium 7.3, of bicarbonate is 11. Cardiac enzyme profile, troponin 0.05, total CK 312, myoglobin 1423. Chest x-ray, no acute changes.IMPRESSION:1. The patient is a 66-year-old gentleman with pulmonary fibrosis, on prednisone, oxygen dependent with respiratory acidosis.2. Septicemia, septic shock secondary to cellulitis of the leg.3. Acute renal shutdown.4. Elevated cardiac enzyme profile without prior cardiac history possibly due to sepsis and also acute renal failure.RECOMMENDATIONS:1. Echocardiogram to assess LV function to rule out any cardiac valvular involvement.2. Aggressive medical management including dialysis.3. From cardiac standpoint, conservative treatment at this juncture. His cardiac enzyme profile could be elevated secondary to sepsis and also underlying renal failure.4. Explained to patient's family in detail regarding condition which is critical which they are aware of."
"PROCEDURE: Endotracheal intubation.INDICATION: Respiratory failure.BRIEF HISTORY: The patient is a 52-year-old male with metastatic osteogenic sarcoma. He was admitted two days ago with small bowel obstruction. He has been on Coumadin for previous PE and currently on heparin drip. He became altered and subsequently deteriorated quite rapidly to the point where he is no longer breathing on his own and has minimal responsiveness. A code blue was called. On my arrival, the patient's vital signs are stable. His blood pressure is systolically in 140s and heart rate 80s. He however has 0 respiratory effort and is unresponsive to even painful stimuli. The patient was given etomidate 20 mg.DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: The patient positioned appropriate equipment at the bedside, given 20 mg of etomidate and 100 mg of succinylcholine. Mac-4 blade was used. A 7.5 ET tube placed to 24th teeth. There is good color change on the capnographer with bilateral breath sounds. Following intubation, the patient's blood pressure began to drop. He was given 2 L of bolus. I started him on dopamine drip at 10 mcg. Dr. X was at the bedside, who is the primary caregiver, he assumed the care of the patient, will be transferred to the ICU. Chest x-ray will be reviewed and Pulmonary will be consulted."
"PROCEDURE PERFORMED: Endotracheal intubation.INDICATION FOR PROCEDURE: The patient was intubated secondary to respiratory distress and increased work of breathing and falling saturation on 15 liters nonrebreather. PCO2 was 29 and pO2 was 66 on the 15 liters.NARRATIVE OF PROCEDURE: The patient was given a total of 5 mg of Versed, 20 mg of etomidate, and 10 mg of vecuronium. He was intubated in a single attempt. Cords were well visualized, and a #8 endotracheal tube was passed using a curved blade. Fiberoptically, a bronchoscope was passed for lavage and the tube was found to be in good position 3 cm above the main carina where it was kept there and the right lower lobe was lavaged with trap A lavage with 100 mL of normal sterile saline for cytology, AFB, and fungal smear and culture. A separate trap B was then lavaged for bacterial C&S and Gram stain and was sent for those purposes. The patient tolerated the procedure well."
"ENDOVASCULAR BRACHYTHERAPY (EBT)The patient is to undergo a course of angioplasty for in-stent restenosis. The radiotherapy will be planned using simulation films when the Novoste system catheter markers are placed on either side of the coronary artery injury site. After this, a calculation will take place to determine the length of time at which the strontium sources will be left in place to deliver an adequate dose given the reference vessel diameter. The rationale for this treatment is based on radiobiological principles that make this type of therapy more effective than blade atherectomy or laser atherectomy. The does per fraction is individualized for each patient according to radiobiological principles and reference vessel diameter. Given that this is a very high dose rate source and the chances of severe acute toxicity such as cardiac ischemia and machine malfunction are present, it is imperative that the patient be followed closely by myself and monitored for ST segment elevation and correct machine function."
"CHIEF COMPLAINT: The patient complains of chest pain. HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 20-year-old male who states that he has had two previous myocardial infarctions related to his use of amphetamines. The patient has not used amphetamines for at least four to five months, according to the patient; however, he had onset of chest pain this evening. The patient describes the pain as midsternal pain, a burning type sensation that lasted several seconds. The patient took one of his own nitroglycerin tablets without any relief. The patient became concerned and came into the emergency department. Here in the emergency department, the patient states that his pain is a 1 on a scale of 1 to 10. He feels much more comfortable. He denies any shortness of breath or dizziness, and states that the pain feels unlike the pain of his myocardial infarction. The patient has no other complaints at this time. PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: The patient's past medical history is significant for status post myocardial infarction in February of 1995 and again in late February of 1995. Both were related to illegal use of amphetamines. ALLERGIES: None. CURRENT MEDICATIONS: Include nitroglycerin p.r.n. PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: VITAL SIGNS: Blood pressure 131/76, pulse 50, respirations 18, temperature 96.5. GENERAL: The patient is a well-developed, well-nourished white male in no acute distress. The patient is alert and oriented x 3 and lying comfortably on the bed. HEENT: Atraumatic, normocephalic. The pupils are equal, round, and reactive. Extraocular movements are intact. NECK: Supple with full range of motion. No rigidity or meningismus. CHEST: Nontender. LUNGS: Clear to auscultation. HEART: Regular rate and rhythm. No murmur, S3, or S4. ABDOMEN: Soft, nondistended, nontender with active bowel sounds. No masses or organomegaly. No costovertebral angle tenderness. EXTREMITIES: Unremarkable. NEUROLOGIC: Unremarkable. EMERGENCY DEPARTMENT LABS: The patient had a CBC, minor chemistry, and cardiac enzymes, all within normal limits. Chest x-ray, as read by me, was normal. Electrocardiogram, as read by me, showed normal sinus rhythm with no acute ST or T-wave segment changes. There were no acute changes seen on the electrocardiogram. O2 saturation, as interpreted by me, is 99%. EMERGENCY DEPARTMENT COURSE: The patient had a stable, uncomplicated emergency department course. The patient received 45 cc of Mylanta and 10 cc of viscous lidocaine with complete relief of his chest pain. The patient had no further complaints and stated that he felt much better shortly thereafter. AFTERCARE AND DISPOSITION: The patient was discharged from the emergency department in stable, ambulatory, good condition with instructions to use Mylanta for his abdominal pain and to follow up with his regular doctor in the next one to two days. Otherwise, return to the emergency department as needed for any problem. The patient was given a copy of his labs and his electrocardiogram. The patient was advised to decrease his level of activity until then. The patient left with final diagnosis of: FINAL DIAGNOSIS: 1. Evaluation of chest pain. 2. Possible esophageal reflux."
"CHIEF COMPLAINT: The patient is a 49-year-old Caucasian male transported to the emergency room by his wife, complaining of shortness of breath.HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is known by the nursing staff here to have a long history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and emphysema. He has made multiple visits in the past. Today, the patient presents himself in severe respiratory distress. His wife states that since his recent admission of three weeks ago for treatment of pneumonia, he has not seemed to be able to recuperate, and has persistent complaints of shortness of breath.Today, his symptoms worsened and she brought him to the emergency room. To the best of her knowledge, there has been no fever. He has persistent chronic cough, as always. More complete history cannot be taken because of the patient๏ฟฝs acute respiratory decompensation.PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Hypertension and emphysema.MEDICATIONS: Lotensin and some water pill as well as, presumably, an Atrovent inhaler.ALLERGIES: None are known.HABITS: The patient is unable to cooperate with the history.SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient lives in the local area with his wife.REVIEW OF BODY SYSTEMS: Unable, secondary to the patientยs condition.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:VITAL SIGNS: Temperature 96 degrees, axillary. Pulse 128. Respirations 48. Blood pressure 156/100. Initial oxygen saturations on room air are 80.GENERAL: Reveals a very anxious, haggard and exhausted-appearing male, tripoding, with labored breathing.HEENT: Head is normocephalic and atraumatic.NECK: The neck is supple without obvious jugular venous distention.LUNGS: Auscultation of the chest reveals very distant and faint breath sounds, bilaterally, without obvious rales.HEART: Cardiac examination reveals sinus tachycardia, without pronounced murmur.ABDOMEN: Soft to palpation.Extremities: Without edema.DIAGNOSTIC DATA: White blood count 25.5, hemoglobin 14, hematocrit 42.4, 89 polys, 1 band, 4 lymphocytes. Chemistry panel within normal limits, with the exception of sodium of 124, chloride 81, CO2 44, BUN 6, creatinine 0.7, glucose 182, albumin 3.3 and globulin 4.1. Troponin is 0.11. Urinalysis reveals yellow clear urine. Specific gravity greater than 1.030 with 2+ ketones, 1+ blood and 3+ protein. No white cells and 0-2 red cells.Chest x-ray suboptimal in quality, but without obvious infiltrates, consolidation or pneumothorax.CRITICAL CARE NOTE: Critical care one hour.Shortly after the patientยs initial assessment, the patient apparently began to complain of chest pain and appeared to the nurse to have mounting exhaustion and respiratory distress. Although O2 had been placed, elevating his oxygen saturations to the mid to upper 90s, he continued to complain of symptoms, as noted above. He became progressively more rapidly obtunded. The patient did receive one gram of magnesium sulfate shortly after his arrival, and the BiPAP apparatus was being readied for his use. However, the patient, at this point, became unresponsive, unable to answer questions, and preparations were begun for intubation. The BiPAP apparatus was briefly placed while supplies and medications were assembled for intubation. It was noted that even with the BiPAP apparatus, in the duration of time which was required for transfer of oxygen tubing to the BiPAP mask, the patientยs O2 saturations rapidly dropped to the upper 60 range.All preparations for intubation having been undertaken, Succinylcholine was ordered, but was apparently unavailable in the department. As the patient was quite obtunded, and while the Dacuronium was being sought, an initial trial of intubation was carried out using a straight blade and a cupped 7.9 endotracheal tube. However, the patient had enough residual muscle tension to make this impractical and further efforts were held pending administration of Dacuronium 10 mg. After approximately two minutes, another attempt at intubation was successful. The cords were noted to be covered with purulent exudates at the time of intubation.The endotracheal tube, having been placed atraumatically, the patient was initially then nebulated on 100% oxygen, and his O2 saturations rapidly rose to the 90-100% range.Chest x-ray demonstrated proper placement of the tube. The patient was given 1 mg of Versed, with decrease of his pulse from the 140-180 range to the 120 range, with satisfactory maintenance of his blood pressure.Because of a complaint of chest pain, which I myself did not hear, during the patientยs initial triage elevation, a trial of Tridil was begun. As the patientยs pressures held in the slightly elevated range, it was possible to push this to 30 mcg per minute. However, after administration of the Dacuronium and Versed, the patientยs blood pressure fell somewhat, and this medication was discontinued when the systolic pressure briefly reached 98.Because of concern regarding pneumonia or sepsis, the patient received one gram of Rocephin intravenously shortly after the intubation. A nasogastric and Foley were placed, and an arterial blood gas was drawn by respiratory therapy. Dr. X was contacted at this point regarding further orders as the patient was transferred to the Intensive Care Unit to be placed on the ventilator there. The doctorยs call was transferred to the Intensive Care Unit so he could leave appropriate orders for the patient in addition to my initial orders, which included Albuterol or Atrovent q. 2h. and Levaquin 500 mg IV, as well as Solu-Medrol.Critical care note terminates at this time.EMERGENCY DEPARTMENT COURSE: See the critical care note.MEDICAL DECISION MAKING (DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS): This patient has an acute severe decompensation with respiratory failure. Given the patientยs white count and recent history of pneumonia, the possibility of recurrence of pneumonia is certainly there. Similarly, it would be difficult to rule out sepsis. Myocardial infarction cannot be excluded.COORDINATION OF CARE: Dr. X was contacted from the emergency room and asked to assume the patientยs care in the Intensive Care Unit.FINAL DIAGNOSIS: Respiratory failure secondary to severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS: The patient is to be transferred to the Intensive Care Unit for further management."
"OPERATION1. Ivor-Lewis esophagogastrectomy.2. Feeding jejunostomy.3. Placement of two right-sided #28-French chest tubes.4. Right thoracotomy.ANESTHESIA: General endotracheal anesthesia with a dual-lumen tube.OPERATIVE PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: After obtaining informed consent from the patient, including a thorough explanation of the risks and benefits of the aforementioned procedure, the patient was taken to the operating room and general endotracheal anesthesia was administered. Prior to administration of general anesthesia, the patient had an epidural anesthesia placed. In addition, he had a dual-lumen endotracheal tube placed. The patient was placed in the supine position to begin the procedure. His abdomen and chest were prepped and draped in the standard surgical fashion. After applying sterile dressings, a #10-blade scalpel was used to make an upper midline incision from the level of the xiphoid to just below the umbilicus. Dissection was carried down through the linea using Bovie electrocautery. The abdomen was opened. Next, a Balfour retractor was positioned as well as a mechanical retractor. Next, our attention was turned to freeing up the stomach. In an attempt to do so, we identified the right gastroepiploic artery and arcade. We incised the omentum and retracted it off the stomach and gastroepiploic arcade. The omentum was divided using suture ligature with 2-0 silk. We did this along the greater curvature and then moved to the lesser curvature where the short gastric arteries were taken down with ligation using 2-0 silk. Next, we turned our attention to performing a Kocher maneuver. This was done and the stomach was freed up. We took down the falciform ligament as well as the caudate attachment to the diaphragm. We enlarged the diaphragmatic hiatus so as to be able to place approximately 3 fingers into the chest. We also did a portion of the esophageal dissection from the abdomen into the chest area. The esophagus and the esophageal hiatus were identified in the abdomen. We next turned our attention to the left gastric artery. The left gastric artery was identified at the base of the stomach. We first took the left gastric vein by ligating and dividing it using 0 silk ties. The left gastric artery was next taken using suture ligature with silk ties followed by 2-0 stick tie reinforcement. At this point the stomach was freely mobile. We then turned our attention to performing our jejunostomy feeding tube. A 2-0 Vicryl pursestring was placed in the jejunum approximately 20 cm distal to the ligament of Treitz. We then used Bovie electrocautery to open the jejunum at this site. We placed a 16-French red rubber catheter through this site. We tied down in place. We then used 3-0 silk sutures to perform a Witzel. Next, the loop of jejunum was tacked up to the abdominal wall using 2-0 silk ties. After doing so and pulling the feeding jejunostomy out through the skin and securing it appropriately, we turned our attention to closing the abdomen. This was done with #1 Prolene. We put in a 2nd layer of 2-0 Vicryl. The skin was closed with 4-0 Monocryl.Next, we turned our attention to performing the thoracic portion of the procedure. The patient was placed in the left lateral decubitus position. The right chest was prepped and draped appropriately. We then used a #10 blade scalpel to make an incision in a posterolateral, non-muscle-sparing fashion. Dissection was carried down to the level of the ribs with Bovie electrocautery. Next, the ribs were counted and the 5th interspace was entered. The lung was deflated. We placed standard chest retractors. Next, we incised the peritoneum over the esophagus. We dissected the esophagus to just above the azygos vein. The azygos vein, in fact, was taken with 0 silk ligatures and reinforced with 2-0 stick ties. As mentioned, we dissected the esophagus both proximally and distally down to the level of the hiatus. After doing this, we backed our NG tube out to above the level where we planned to perform our pursestring. We used an automatic pursestring and applied. We then transected the proximal portion of the stomach with Metzenbaum scissors. We secured our pursestring and then placed a 28 anvil in the divided proximal portion of the esophagus. The pursestring was then tied down without difficulty. Next, we tabularized our stomach using a #80 GIA stapler. After doing so, we chose a portion of the stomach more distally and opened it using Bovie electrocautery. We placed our EEA stapler through it and then punched out through the gastric wall. We connected our anvil to the EEA stapler. This was then secured appropriately. We checked to make sure that there was appropriate muscle apposition. We then fired the stapler. We obtained 2 complete rings, 1 of the esophagus and 1 of the stomach, which were sent for pathology. We also sent the gastroesophageal specimen for pathology. Of note was the fact that the frozen section showed no evidence of tumor and in the proximal distal margins. We then turned our attention to closing the gastrostomy opening. This was closed with 2-0 Vicryl in a running fashion. We then buttressed this with serosal 3-0 Vicryl interrupted sutures. We returned the newly constructed gastroesophageal anastomosis into the chest and covered it by covering the pleura over it. Next, we placed two #28-French chest tubes, 1 anteriorly and 1 posteriorly, taking care not to place it near the anastomosis. We then closed the chest with #2 Vicryl in an interrupted figure-of-eight fashion. The lung was brought up. We closed the muscle layers with #0 Vicryl followed by #0 Vicryl; then we closed the subcutaneous layer with 2-0 Vicryl and the skin with 4-0 Monocryl. Sterile dressing was applied. The instrument and sponge count was correct at the end of the case. The patient tolerated the procedure well and was extubated in the operating room and transferred to the ICU in good condition."
"This is a low stress, high rest 1-day protocol; however the patient had the resting study done today.CLINICAL INDICATION: Chest pain.INTERPRETATION: The patient received 14.9 mCi of Cardiolite for the rest portion of the study and 11.5 mCi of Cardiolite for the stress portion of the study.The patient's baseline EKG was normal sinus rhythm. The patient was stressed according to Bruce protocol by Dr. X. Exercise test was supervised and interpreted by Dr. X. Please see the separate report for stress portion of the study.The myocardial perfusion SPECT study shows there is mild anteroseptal fixed defect seen, which is most likely secondary to soft tissue attenuation artifact. There is, however, mild partially reversible perfusion defect seen, which is more pronounced in the stress images and short-axis view suggestive of minimal ischemia in the inferolateral wall.The gated SPECT study shows normal wall motion and wall thickening with calculated left ventricular ejection fraction of 59%.CONCLUSION:1. The exercise myocardial perfusion study shows possibility of mild ischemia in the inferolateral wall.2. Normal LV systolic function with LV ejection fraction of 59%."
"INDICATION: Chest pain.INTERPRETATION: Resting heart rate of 71, blood pressure 100/60. EKG normal sinus rhythm. The patient exercised on Bruce for 8 minutes on stage III. Peak heart rate was 151, which is 87% of the target heart rate, blood pressure of 132/54. Total METs was 10.1. EKG revealed nonspecific ST depression in inferior and lateral leads. The test was terminated because of fatigue. The patient did have chest pain during exercise that resolved after termination of the exercise.IN SUMMARY:1. Positive exercise ischemia with ST depression 0.5 mm.2. Chest pain resolved after termination of exercise.3. Good exercise duration, tolerance and double product.NUCLEAR INTERPRETATION:Resting and stress images were obtained with 10.1 mCi and 34.1 mCi of tetraphosphate injected intravenously by standard protocol. Nuclear myocardial perfusion scan demonstrates homogenous and uniform distribution with tracer uptake without any evidence of reversible or fixed defect. Gated SPECT revealed normal wall motion, ejection fraction of 68%. End-diastolic volume of 77, end-systolic volume of 24.IN SUMMARY:1. Normal nuclear myocardial perfusion scan.2. Ejection fraction of 68% by gated SPECT."
"The patient is a pleasant 44-year-old woman with a history of rheumatoid arthritis admitted to the hospital with chest pain. MI has been ruled out. She has been referred for an exercise echocardiogram.Informed written consent has been obtained from the patient. I explained the procedure to her prior to initiation of such. The appropriate time-out procedure as per Medical Center protocol was performed prior to the procedure being begun while the patient was actively participating with appropriate identification of the patient, procedure, physician, documentation, position. There were no safety concerns noted by staff nor myself.REST ECHO: EF 60%. No wall motion abnormalities. EKG shows normal sinus rhythm with mild ST depressions. The patient exercised for 7 minutes 30 seconds on a standard Bruce protocol, exceeding target heart rate; no angina nor significant ECG changes seen. Peak stress echo imaging shows EF of 75%, no regional wall motion abnormalities. There was resting hypertension noted, systolic of approximately 152 mmHg with appropriate response of blood pressure to exercise. No dysrhythmias noted.IMPRESSION:1. Negative exercise ECG/echocardiogram stress evaluation for inducible ischemia in excess of target heart rate.2. Resting hypertension with appropriate response of blood pressure to exercise.These results have been discussed with the patient. Other management as per the hospital-based internal medicine service.To be clear, there were no complications of this procedure."
"INDICATION: This 69-year-old man is undergoing a preoperative evaluation for anticipated prostate surgery. He is having a transurethral prostate resection performed by Dr. X for treatment of severely symptomatic prostatic hypertrophy. He has recently completed radiation therapy to T11 for a plasmacytoma. He has recently complained of left anterior chest pain, which radiates down the left upper arm towards the elbow. This occurs during quiet periods such as in bed at night. It may last all night and still be present in the morning. It usually dissipates as the day progresses. There are no obvious triggers and there are no obvious alleviating factors. The patient has no known cardiac risk factors. He is currently taking Avodart 0.5 mg daily, Wellbutrin 300 mg daily, Xanax 0.25 mg p.r.n., Uroxatral 10 mg daily, and omeprazole 20 mg daily.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On physical examination, the patient appears pale and fatigued. He is 66 inches tall, 205 pounds for a body mass index of 32. His resting heart rate is 80. His resting blood pressure is 120/84. His lungs are clear. His heart exam reveals a regular rhythm and normal S1 and S2 without murmur, gallop, or rub appreciated. The carotid upstroke is normal with no bruit identified. The peripheral pulses are intact. The resting electrocardiogram showed a sinus rhythm at 68 beats per minute and is normal.DESCRIPTION: The patient exercised according to the standard Bruce protocol stopping at 4 minutes and 39 seconds with fatigue. He did not experience his left anterior chest pain with exercise. He did achieve a maximal heart rate of 129 beats per minute, which is 85% of his maximal predicted heart rate. His maximal blood pressure was 200/84, double product of 24,000 and achieving 7 METs. As noted the resting electrocardiogram was normal. With exercise, there were no significant deviations from baseline and no arrhythmias.CONCLUSION:1. Reduced exercise capacity for age.2. No chest pain with exercise.3. No significant ST segment changes with exercise.4. Symptoms of left anterior chest pain were not provoked with exercise.5. Hypertensive response noted with exercise."
"INDICATIONS: An 82-year-old man entering the cardiac rehabilitation program 6 weeks after a porcine aortic valve replacement and single-vessel coronary bypass graft procedure. The patient has had a complicated postoperative course with rapid atrial fibrillation, pleural effusions, anemia and thrombocytopenia. He is currently stabilized and improving in strength. He is living in Nantucket with his daughter Debra Anderson while he recuperates and completes the cardiac rehabilitation program. He has a few other significant medical problems.MEDICATIONS:1. Toprol-XL 25 mg daily.2. Simvastatin 80 mg daily.3. Aspirin 81 mg daily.4. Synthroid 0.5 mg daily.5. Warfarin 1.5 mg daily.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: The patient appears pale and fragile. He is comfortable at rest. His resting heart rate is 80. His resting blood pressure is 112/70. His conjunctivae are pale. His lungs have decreased breath sounds throughout and dullness at the bases bilaterally. Heart exam reveals a distant S1 and S2. There is a short 2/6 systolic ejection murmur. The extremities are normal without clubbing, cyanosis or edema.The resting echocardiogram showed a sinus rhythm at 70 beats per minute. There is poor R wave progression across the pericardium and Q waves inferiorly.DESCRIPTION: The patient exercised according to the modified Bruce protocol stopping at 3 minutes and 20 seconds with fatigue and shortness of breath. He did not experience chest pain with exercise. He did achieve a maximal heart rate of 100, which is 72% of his maximal predicted heart rate. His maximal blood pressure was 190/70 resulting in a double product of 19,000 and achieving 2.3 METS. As noted, the resting electrocardiogram had inferior Q waves and poor R wave progression. There were no significant ST segment changes with exercise. There were only rare ventricular premature beats with exercise.CONCLUSION:1. Poor exercise capacity 6 weeks following an aortic valve replacement and single-vessel bypass procedure.2. No chest pain with exercise.3. No significant ECG changes with exercise.4. The patient is considered stable to enter our cardiac rehabilitation program. I recommend the patient have a complete blood count, basic metabolic profile, and TSH obtained prior to entering the rehab program."
"INDICATION: Chest pain.DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: After informed consent was obtained from the patient, the patient was brought to the cardiology procedure room where he was hooked up to continuous hemodynamic monitoring. The patient's baseline heart rate was 85 beats per minute and blood pressure was 124/90. The patient was started on a Bruce protocol where he exercised for 11 minutes and 42 seconds achieving 12.8 METs. The patient's maximum blood pressure during this stress part was 148/80 and the patient achieved heart rate of 152 with no EKG changes, no chest pain.FINDINGS:1. Normal hemodynamic response to exercise.2. No EKG changes suggestive of ischemia.3. No chest pain during the stress test.4. Achieved optimum METs for the exercise done and this is a normal exercise treadmill stress test."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES: Angina with severe claudication, coronary artery disease, hypertension, dyslipidemia, heavy tobacco abuse, and PAD.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES: Angina with severe claudication, coronary artery disease, hypertension, dyslipidemia, heavy tobacco abuse, and PAD. Significant coronary artery disease, very severe PAD.PROCEDURES PERFORMED:1. Right common femoral artery cannulation.2. Conscious sedation using IV Versed and IV fentanyl.3. Retrograde bilateral coronary angiography.4. Abdominal aortogram with pelvic runoff.5. Left external iliac angiogram with runoff to the patient's left foot.6. Left external iliac angiogram with runoff to the patient's right leg.7. Right common femoral artery angiogram runoff to the patient's right leg.PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: The patient was taken to the cardiac catheterization laboratory after having a valid consent. He was prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion.After local infiltration with 2% Xylocaine, the right common femoral artery was entered percutaneously and a 4-French sheath was placed over the artery. The arterial sheath was flushed throughout the procedure.Conscious sedation was obtained using IV Versed and IV fentanyl.With the help of a Wholey wire, a 4-French 4-curve Judkins right coronary artery catheter was advanced into the ascending aorta. The wire was removed, the catheter was flushed. The catheter was engaged in the left main. Injections were performed at the left main in different views. The catheter was then exchanged for an RCA catheter, 4-French 4-curve which was advanced into the ascending aorta with the help of a J-wire. The wire was removed, the catheter was flushed. The catheter was engaged in the RCA. Injections were performed at the RCA in different views.The catheter was then exchanged for a 5-French Omniflush catheter, which was advanced into the abdominal aorta with the help of a regular J-wire. The wire was removed. The catheter was flushed. Abdominal aortogram was then performed with runoff to the patient's pelvis.The Omniflush catheter was then retracted into the aortic bifurcation. Through the Omniflush catheter, a Glidewire was then advanced distally into the left SFA. The Omniflush was then removed. Through the wire, a Royal Flush catheter was then advanced into the left external iliac. The wire was removed. Left external iliac angiogram was performed with runoff to the patient's left foot _______ was then performed. The catheter was then retracted into the left common iliac. Angiograms were performed of the left common iliac with runoff to the patient's left groin. The catheter was then positioned at the level of the right common iliac. Angiogram of the right common iliac with runoff to the patient's right leg was then performed. The catheter was then removed with the help of a J-wire. The J-wire was left in the abdominal aorta. Hand injection was performed of the right common femoral artery in 2 locations with runoff to the patient's right leg.The wire was then removed. The arterial sheath was then removed after being flushed. Hemostasis was obtained using hand compression.The patient tolerated the procedure well and had no complications. At the end of the procedure, palpable right common femoral pulses were noted as well as 1+ right PT pulse.Hemodynamic Findings: Aortic pressure 140/70.ANGIOGRAPHIC FINDINGS: Left main with calcification 25% to 40% lesion.The left main is very short.LAD with calcification 25% to 40% proximal lesion.D1 has 25% lesion. No in-stent restenosis was noted in D1.D2 and D3 are very small with luminal irregularities.Circumflex artery was diseased throughout the vessel. The circumflex artery has an ostium of 60% to 75% lesion distally and the circumflex has a 75% lesion.OM1 has 25% to 40% lesion. These OMs are small with luminal irregularities.RCA has 25% to 50% lesion, distally, the RCA has luminal irregularities.Left ventriculography was not done.ABDOMINAL AORTOGRAM: Right renal artery with luminal irregularities. Left renal artery with luminal irregularities. The abdominal aorta has 25% lesion.Right common iliac has a 25% to 50% lesion as well as a distal 75% lesion.The right external iliac has a proximal 75% lesion.The distal part of the right external iliac as well as the right common femoral appears to be occlusive by the 5-French sheath.The right SFA was visualized, although not very well.Left common iliac with 25% to 50% lesion. Left external iliac with 25% to 40% lesion. Left common femoral with 25% to 40% lesion. Left SFA with 25% lesion. Left popliteal with wall luminal irregularities.Three-vessel runoff is noted at the level of the left knee and at the level of the left ankle.Conclusions: Severe coronary artery disease. Very severe peripheral arterial disease.PLAN: Because of the anatomic distribution of the coronary artery disease, for now we will continue medical treatment for CAD. We will proceed with revascularization of the right external iliac as well as right common femoral. Discontinue tobacco."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Bilateral upper lobe cavitary lung masses.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:1. Bilateral upper lobe cavitary lung masses.2. Final pending pathology.3. Airway changes including narrowing of upper lobe segmental bronchi, apical and posterior on the right, and anterior on the left. There are also changes of inflammation throughout.PROCEDURE PERFORMED: Diagnostic fiberoptic bronchoscopy with biopsies and bronchoalveolar lavage.ANESTHESIA: Conscious sedation was with Demerol 150 mg and Versed 4 mg IV.OPERATIVE REPORT: The patient is residing in the endoscopy suite. After appropriate anesthesia and sedation, the bronchoscope was advanced transorally due to the patient's recent history of epistaxis. Topical lidocaine was utilized for anesthesia. Epiglottis and vocal cords demonstrated some mild asymmetry of the true cords with right true and false vocal cord appearing slightly more prominent. This may be normal anatomic variant. The scope was advanced into the trachea. The main carina was sharp in appearance. Right upper, middle, and lower segmental bronchi as well as left upper lobe and lower lobe segmental bronchi were serially visualized. Immediately noted were some abnormalities including circumferential narrowing and probable edema involving the posterior and apical segmental bronchi on the right and to a lesser degree the anterior segmental bronchus on the left. No specific intrinsic masses were noted. Under direct visualization, the scope was utilized to lavage the posterior segmental bronchus in the right upper lobe. Also cytologic brushings and protected bacteriologic brushing specimens were obtained. Three biopsies were attempted within the cavitary lesion in the posterior segment of the right upper lobe. During lavage, some caseous appearing debris appeared intermittently. The specimens were collected and sent to the lab. Procedure was terminated with hemostasis having been verified. The patient tolerated the procedure well.Throughout the procedure, the patient's vital signs and oximetry were monitored and remained within satisfactory limits.The patient will be returned to her room with orders as per usual."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:1. Hemoptysis.2. History of lung cancer.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Tumor occluding right middle lobe with friability.PROCEDURE PERFORMED: Fiberoptic bronchoscopy, diagnostic.LOCATION: Endoscopy suite #4.ANESTHESIA: General per Anesthesia Service.ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: Minimal.COMPLICATIONS: None.INDICATIONS FOR PROCEDURE: The patient presented to ABCD Hospital with a known history of lung cancer and acute hemoptysis with associated chest pain. Due to her prior history, it was felt that she would benefit from diagnostic fiberoptic bronchoscopy to help determine the etiology of the hemoptysis. She was brought to endoscopy suite #4 and informed consent was obtained. PROCEDURE DETAILS: The patient was placed in the supine position and intubated by the Anesthesia Service. Intravenous sedation was given as per Anesthesia. The fiberoptic scope was passed through the #8 endotracheal tube into the main trachea. The right mainstem bronchus was examined. The right upper lobe and subsegments appeared grossly within normal limits with no endobronchial lesions noted. Upon examining the right middle lobe, there was a tumor noted occluding the lateral segment of the right middle lobe and a clot appreciated over the medial segment of the right middle lobe.The clot was lavaged with normal saline and there was noted to be tumor behind this clot. Tumor completely occluded both segments of the right middle lobe. Scope was then passed to the subsegments of the right lower lobe, which were individually examined and noted to be grossly free of endobronchial lesions. Scope was pulled back to the level of the midtrachea, passed into the left mainstem bronchus. Left upper lobe and its subsegments were examined and noted to be grossly free of endobronchial lesions. The lingula and left lower subsegments were all each individually examined and noted to be grossly free of endobronchial lesions. There were some secretions noted throughout the left lung. The scope was retracted and passed again to the right mainstem bronchus. The area of the right middle lobe was reexamined. The tumor was noted to be grossly friable with oozing noted from the tumor with minimal manipulation. It did not appear as if a scope or cannula could be passed distal to the tumor. Due to continued oozing, 1 cc of epinephrine was applied topically with adequate hemostasis obtained. The area was examined for approximately one minute for assurance of adequate hemostasis. The scope was then retracted and the patient was sent to the recovery room in stable condition. She will be extubated as per the Anesthesia Service. Cytology and cultures were not sent due to the patient's known diagnosis. Further recommendations are pending at this time."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:1. Status post multiple trauma/motor vehicle accident.2. Acute respiratory failure.3. Acute respiratory distress/ventilator asynchrony.4. Hypoxemia.5. Complete atelectasis of left lung.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:1. Status post multiple trauma/motor vehicle accident.2. Acute respiratory failure.3. Acute respiratory distress/ventilator asynchrony.4. Hypoxemia.5. Complete atelectasis of left lung.6. Clots partially obstructing the endotracheal tube and completely obstructing the entire left main stem and entire left bronchial system.PROCEDURE PERFORMED: Emergent fiberoptic plus bronchoscopy with lavage.LOCATION OF PROCEDURE: ICU. Room #164.ANESTHESIA/SEDATION: Propofol drip, Brevital 75 mg, morphine 5 mg, and Versed 8 mg.HISTORY: The patient is a 44-year-old male who was admitted to ABCD Hospital on 09/04/03 status post MVA with multiple trauma and subsequently diagnosed with multiple spine fractures as well as bilateral pulmonary contusions, requiring ventilatory assistance. The patient was noted with acute respiratory distress on ventilator support with both ventilator asynchrony and progressive desaturation. Chest x-ray as noted above revealed complete atelectasis of the left lung. The patient was subsequently sedated and received one dose of paralytic as noted above followed by emergent fiberoptic flexible bronchoscopy.PROCEDURE DETAIL: A bronchoscope was inserted through the oroendotracheal tube, which was partially obstructed with blood clots. These were lavaged with several aliquots of normal saline until cleared. The bronchoscope required removal because the tissue/clots were obstructing the bronchoscope. The bronchoscope was reinserted on several occasions until cleared and advanced to the main carina. The endotracheal tube was noted to be in good position. The bronchoscope was advanced through the distal trachea. There was a white tissue completely obstructing the left main stem at the carina. The bronchoscope was advanced to this region and several aliquots of normal saline lavage were instilled and suctioned. Again this partially obstructed the bronchoscope requiring several times removing the bronchoscope to clear the lumen. The bronchoscope subsequently was advanced into the left mainstem and subsequently left upper and lower lobes. There was diffuse mucus impactions/tissue as well as intermittent clots. There was no evidence of any active bleeding noted. Bronchoscope was adjusted and the left lung lavaged until no evidence of any endobronchial obstruction is noted. Bronchoscope was then withdrawn to the main carina and advanced into the right bronchial system. There is no plugging or obstruction of the right bronchial system. The bronchoscope was then withdrawn to the main carina and slowly withdrawn as the position of endotracheal tube was verified, approximately 4 cm above the main carina. The bronchoscope was then completely withdrawn as the patient was maintained on ventilator support during and postprocedure. Throughout the procedure, pulse oximetry was greater than 95% throughout. There is no hemodynamic instability or variability noted during the procedure. Postprocedure chest x-ray is pending at this time."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:1. Right hyoid mass, rule out carcinomatosis.2. Weight loss.3. Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:1. Right hyoid mass, rule out carcinomatosis.2. Weight loss.3. Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.4. Changes consistent with acute and chronic bronchitis.5. Severe mucosal irregularity with endobronchial narrowing of the right middle and lower lobes.6. Left vocal cord irregularity.PROCEDURE PERFORMED: Fiberoptic flexible bronchoscopy with lavage, brushings, and endobronchial mucosal biopsies of the right bronchus intermedius/right lower lobe.ANESTHESIA: Demerol 50 mg with Versed 3 mg as well as topical cocaine and lidocaine solution.LOCATION OF PROCEDURE: Endoscopy suite #4.After informed consent was obtained and following the review of the procedure including procedure as well as possible risks and complications were explained and consent was previously obtained, the patient was sedated with the above stated medication and the patient was continuously monitored on pulse oximetry, noninvasive blood pressure, and EKG monitoring. Prior to starting the procedure, the patient was noted to have a baseline oxygen saturation of 86% on room air. Subsequently, she was given a bronchodilator treatment with Atrovent and albuterol and subsequent saturation increased to approximately 90% to 91% on room air.The patient was placed on a supplemental oxygen as the patient was sedated with above-stated medication. As this occurred, the bronchoscope was inserted into the right naris with good visualization of the nasopharynx and oropharynx. The cords were noted to oppose bilaterally on phonation. There was some slight mucosal irregularity noted on the vocal cord on the left side. Additional topical lidocaine was instilled on the vocal cords, at which point the bronchoscope was introduced into the trachea, which was midline in nature. The bronchoscope was then advanced to the distal trachea and additional lidocaine was instilled. At this time, the bronchoscope was further advanced through the main stem and additional lidocaine was instilled. Bronchoscope was then further advanced into the right upper lobe, which revealed no evidence of any endobronchial lesion. The mucosa was diffusely friable throughout. Bronchoscope was then slowly withdrawn into the right main stem and additional lidocaine was instilled. At this point, the bronchoscope was then advanced to the right bronchus intermedius. At this time, it was noted that there was severe mucosal irregularities of nodular in appearance significantly narrowing the right lower lobe and right middle lobe opening. The mucosal area throughout this region was severely friable. Additional lidocaine was instilled as well as topical epinephrine. At this time, bronchoscope was maintained in this region and endobronchial biopsies were performed. At the initial attempt of inserting biopsy forceps, some resistance was noted within the proximal channel at this time making advancement of the biopsy forceps out of the proximal channel impossible. So the biopsy forceps was withdrawn and the bronchoscope was completely withdrawn and new bronchoscope was then utilized. At this time, bronchoscope was then reinserted into the right naris and subsequently advanced to the vocal cords into the right bronchus intermedius without difficulty. At this time, the biopsy forceps were easily passed and visualized in the right bronchus intermedius. At this time, multiple mucosal biopsies were performed with some mild oozing noted. Several aliquots of normal saline lavage followed. After completion of multiple biopsies there was good hemostasis. Cytology flushing was also performed in this region and subsequently several aliquots of additional normal saline lavage was followed. Bronchoscope was unable to be passed distally to the base of the segment of the right lower lobe or distal to the further visualized endobronchial anatomy of the right middle lobe subsegments. The bronchoscope was then withdrawn to the distal trachea.At this time, bronchoscope was then advanced to the left main stem. Additional lidocaine was instilled. The bronchoscope was advanced to the left upper and lower lobe subsegments. There was no endobronchial lesion visualized. There is mild diffuse erythema and fibromucosa was noted throughout. No endobronchial lesion was visualized in the left bronchial system. The bronchoscope was then subsequently further withdrawn to the distal trachea and readvanced into the right bronchial system. At this time, bronchoscope was readvanced into the right bronchus intermedius and additional aliquots of normal saline lavage until cleared. There is no gross bleeding evidenced at this time or diffuse mucosal erythema and edema present throughout. The bronchoscope was subsequently withdrawn and the patient was sent to recovery room. During the bronchoscopy, the patient noted ________ have desaturation and required increasing FiO2 with subsequent increased saturation to 93% to 94%. The patient remained at this level of saturation or greater throughout the remaining of the procedure.The patient postprocedure relates having some intermittent hemoptysis prior to the procedure as well as moderate exertional dyspnea. This was confirmed by her daughter and mother who were also present at the bedside postprocedure. The patient did receive a nebulizer bronchodilator treatment immediately prebronchoscopy and postprocedure as well. The patient also admitted to continued smoking in spite of all of the above. The patient was extensively counseled regarding the continued smoking especially with her present symptoms. She was advised regarding smoking cessation. The patient was also placed on a prescription of prednisone 2 mg tablets starting at 40 mg a day decreasing every three days to continue to wean off. The patient was also administered Solu-Medrol 60 mg IV x1 in recovery room. There was no significant bronchospastic component noted, although because of the severity of the mucosal edema, erythema, and her complaints, short course of steroids will be instituted. The patient was also advised to refrain from using any aspirin or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medication because of her hemoptysis. At this time, the patient was also advised that if hemoptysis were to continue or worsen or develop progressive dyspnea, to either contact myself, , or return to ABCD Emergency Room for evaluation of possible admission. However, the above was reviewed with the patient in great detail as well as with her daughter and mother who were at the bedsite at this time as well."
"PREPROCEDURE DIAGNOSIS: End-stage renal disease.POSTPROCEDURE DIAGNOSIS: End-stage renal disease.PROCEDURES PERFORMED1. Left arm fistulogram.2. Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty of the proximal and distal cephalic vein.3. Ultrasound-guided access of left upper arm brachiocephalic fistula.ANESTHESIA: Sedation with local.COMPLICATIONS: None.CONDITION: Fair.DISPOSITION: PACU.ACCESS SITE: Left upper arm brachiocephalic fistula.SHEATH SIZE: 5 French.CONTRAST TYPE: JC PEG tube 70.CONTRAST VOLUME: 48 mL.FLUOROSCOPY TIME: 16 minutes.INDICATION FOR PROCEDURE: This is a 38-year-old female with a left upper arm brachiocephalic fistula which has been transposed. The patient recently underwent a fistulogram with angioplasty at the proximal upper arm cephalic vein due to a stenosis detected on Duplex ultrasound. The patient subsequently was noted to have poor flow to the fistula, and the fistula was difficult to palpate. A repeat ultrasound was performed which demonstrated a high-grade stenosis involving the distal upper arm cephalic vein just distal to the brachial anastomosis. The patient presents today for a left arm fistulogram with angioplasty. The risks, benefits, and alternatives of the procedure were discussed with the patient and understands and in agreement to proceed.PROCEDURE DETAILS: The patient was brought to the angio suite and laid supine on the table. After sedation was administered, the left arm was then prepped and draped in a standard surgical fashion. Continuous pulse oximetry and cardiac monitoring were performed throughout the procedure. The patient was given 1 g of IV Ancef prior to incision.The left brachiocephalic fistula was visualized with bevel ultrasound. The cephalic vein in the proximal upper arm region appeared to be of adequate caliber. There was an area of stenosis at the proximal cephalic vein just distal to the brachial artery anastomosis. The cephalic vein in the proximal forearm region was easily compressible. The skin overlying the vessel was injected with 1% lidocaine solution. A small incision was made with the #11 blade. The cephalic vein then was cannulated with a 5 French micropuncture introducer sheath. The sheath was advanced over the wire. A fistulogram was performed which demonstrated a high-grade stenosis just distal to the brachial artery anastomosis. The introducer sheath was then exchanged for a 5 French sheath over a 0.025 guide wire. The sheath was aspirated and flushed with heparinized saline solution. A 0.025 glidewire was then obtained and advanced, placed over the sheath and across the area of stenosis into the brachial artery. A 5 French short Kumpe catheter was used to guide the wire into the distal brachial and radial artery. After crossing the area of stenosis, a 5 x 20 mm standard angioplasty balloon was obtained and prepped from the back table. This was placed over the glidewire into the area of stenosis and inflated to 14 mmHg pressure and then deflated. The balloon was then removed over the wire and repeat fistulogram was performed which demonstrated significant improvement. However, there is still a remainder of residual stenosis. The 5-mm balloon was placed over the wire again and a repeat angioplasty was performed. The balloon was then removed over the wire and a repeat angiogram was performed which demonstrated again an area of stenosis right at the anastomosis. The glidewire was removed and a 0.014 guide wire was then obtained and placed through the sheath and across the brachial anastomosis and into the radial artery. A 4 x 20 mm cutting balloon was obtained and prepped on the back table. The 5 French sheath was then exchanged for a 6 French sheath. The balloon was then placed over the 0.014 guide wire into the area of stenosis and then inflated to normal pressures at 8 mmHg. The balloon was then deflated and removed over the wire. A 5 mm x 20 mm balloon was obtained and prepped and placed over the wire into the area of stenosis and inflated to pressures of 14 mmHg. A repeat fistulogram was performed after the removal of the balloon which demonstrated excellent results with no significant residual stenosis. The patient actually had a nice palpable thrill at this point. The fistulogram of the distal cephalic vein at the subclavian anastomosis was performed which demonstrated a mild area of stenosis. The sheath was removed and blood pressure was held over the puncture site for approximately 10 minutes.After hemostasis was achieved, the cephalic vein again was visualized with bevel ultrasound. The proximal cephalic vein was then cannulated after injecting the skin overlying the vessel with a 1% lidocaine solution. A 5 French micropuncture introducer sheath was then placed over the wire into the proximal cephalic vein. A repeat fistulogram was performed which demonstrated an area of stenosis within the distal cephalic vein just prior to the subclavian vein confluence. The 5 French introducer sheath was then exchanged for a 5 French sheath. The 5 mm x 20 mm balloon was placed over a 0.035 glidewire across the area of stenosis. The balloon was inflated to 14 mmHg. The balloon was then deflated and a repeat fistulogram was performed through the sheath which demonstrated good results. The sheath was then removed and blood pressure was held over the puncture site for approximately 10 minutes. After adequate hemostasis was achieved, the area was cleansed in 2x2 and Tegaderm was applied. The patient tolerated the procedure without any complications. I was present for the entire case. The sponge, instrument, and needle counts are correct at the end of the case. The patient was subsequently taken to PACU in stable condition.ANGIOGRAPHIC FINDINGS: The initial left arm brachiocephalic fistulogram demonstrated a stenosis at the brachial artery anastomosis and distally within the cephalic vein. After standard balloon angioplasty, there was a mild improvement but some residual area of stenosis remained at the anastomosis. Then postcutting balloon angioplasty, venogram demonstrated a significant improvement without any evidence of significant stenosis.Fistulogram of the proximal cephalic vein demonstrated a stenosis just prior to the confluence with the left subclavian vein. Postangioplasty demonstrated excellent results with the standard balloon. There was no evidence of any contrast extravasation.IMPRESSION1. High-grade stenosis involving the cephalic vein at the brachial artery anastomosis and distally. Postcutting balloon and standard balloon angioplasty demonstrated excellent results without any evidence of contrast extravasation.2. A moderate grade stenosis within the distal cephalic vein just prior to the confluence to the left subclavian vein. Poststandard balloon angioplasty demonstrated excellent results. No evidence of contrast extravasation."
"PROCEDURE: Flexible bronchoscopy.PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS (ES): Chronic wheezing.INDICATIONS FOR PROCEDURE: Evaluate the airway.DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: This was done in the pediatric endoscopy suite with the aid of Anesthesia. The patient was sedated with sevoflurane and propofol. One mL of 1% lidocaine was used for airway anesthesia. The 2.8-mm flexible pediatric bronchoscope was passed through the left naris. The upper airway was visualized. The epiglottis, arytenoids, and vocal cords were all normal. The scope was passed below the cords. The subglottic space was normal. The patient had normal tracheal rings and a normal membranous portion of the trachea. There was noted to be slight deviation of the trachea to the right. At the carina, the right and left mainstem were evaluated. The right upper lobe, right middle lobe, and right lower lobe were all anatomically normal. The scope was wedged in the right middle lobe, 10 mL of saline was infused, 10 was returned. This was sent for cell count, cytology, lipid index, and quantitative bacterial cultures. The left side was then evaluated and there was noted to be the normal cardiac pulsations on the left. There was also noted to be some dynamic collapse of the left mainstem during the respiratory cycle. The left upper lobe and left lower lobe were normal. The scope was withdrawn. The patient tolerated the procedure well.ENDOSCOPIC DIAGNOSIS: Left mainstem bronchomalacia."
"PREOPERATIVE/POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:1. Severe tracheobronchitis.2. Mild venous engorgement with question varicosities associated pulmonary hypertension.3. Right upper lobe submucosal hemorrhage without frank mass underneath it status post biopsy.PROCEDURE PERFORMED: Flexible fiberoptic bronchoscopy with:a. Right lower lobe bronchoalveolar lavage.b. Right upper lobe endobronchial biopsy.SAMPLES: Bronchoalveolar lavage for cytology and for microbiology of the right lower lobe endobronchial biopsy of the right upper lobe.INDICATIONS: The patient with persistent hemoptysis of unclear etiology.PROCEDURE: After obtaining informed consent, the patient was brought to Bronchoscopy Suite. The patient had previously been on Coumadin and then heparin. Heparin was discontinued approximately one-and-a-half hours prior to the procedure. The patient underwent topical anesthesia with 10 cc of 4% Xylocaine spray to the left nares and nasopharynx. Blood pressure, EKG, and oximetry monitoring were applied and monitored continuously throughout the procedure. Oxygen at two liters via nasal cannula was delivered with saturations in the 90% to 100% throughout the procedure. The patient was premedicated with 50 mg of Demerol and 2 mg of Versed. After conscious sedation was achieved, the bronchoscope was advanced through the left nares into the nasopharynx and oropharynx. There was minimal redundant oral soft tissue in the oropharynx. There was mild erythema. Clear secretions were suctioned.Additional topical anesthesia was applied to the larynx and then throughout the tracheobronchial tree for the procedure, a total of 16 cc of 2% Xylocaine was applied. Vocal cord motion was normal. The bronchoscope was then advanced through the larynx into the trachea. There was evidence of moderate inflammation with prominent vascular markings and edema. No frank blood was visualized. The area was suction clear of copious amounts of clear white secretions. Additional topical anesthesia was applied and the bronchoscope was advanced into the left main stem. The bronchoscope was then sequentially advanced into each segment and sub-segment of the left upper lobe and left lower lobe. There was significant amount of inflammation, induration, and vascular tortuosity in these regions. No frank blood was identified. No masses or lesions were identified. There was senile bronchiectasis with slight narrowing and collapse during the exhalation. The air was suctioned clear. The bronchoscope was withdrawn and advanced into the right main stem. Bronchoscope was introduced into the right upper lobe and each sub-segment was visualized. Again significant amounts of tracheobronchitis was noted with vascular infiltration. In the sub-carina of the anterior segment of the right upper lobe, there was evidence of a submucosal hematoma without frank mass underneath this. The bronchoscope was removed and advanced into the right middle and right lower lobe. There was marked injection and inflammation in these regions. In addition, there was marked vascular engorgement with near frank varicosities identified throughout the region. Again, white clear secretions were identified. No masses or other processes were noted. The area was suctioned clear. A bronchoalveolar lavage was subsequently performed in the anterior segment of the right lower lobe. The bronchoscope was then withdrawn and readvanced into the right upper lobe. Endobronchial biopsies of the carina of the sub-segment and anterior segment of the right upper lobe were obtained. Minimal hemorrhage occurred after the biopsy, which stopped after 1 cc of 1:1000 epinephrine. The area remained clear. No further hemorrhage was identified. The bronchoscope was subsequently withdrawn. The patient tolerated the procedure well and was stable throughout the procedure. No further hemoptysis was identified. The patient was sent to Recovery in good condition."
"POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Mild tracheobronchitis with history of granulomatous disease and TB, rule out active TB/miliary TB.PROCEDURE PERFORMED: Flexible fiberoptic bronchoscopy diagnostic with:a. Right middle lobe bronchoalveolar lavage.b. Right upper lobe bronchoalveolar lavage.c. Right lower lobe transbronchial biopsies.COMPLICATIONS: None.Samples include bronchoalveolar lavage of the right upper lobe and right middle lobe and transbronchial biopsies of the right lower lobe.INDICATION: The patient with a history of TB and caseating granulomata on open lung biopsy with evidence of interstitial lung disease and question tuberculosis.PROCEDURE: After obtaining an informed consent, the patient was brought to the Bronchoscopy Suite with appropriate isolation related to ______ precautions. The patient had appropriate oxygen, blood pressure, heart rate, and respiratory rate monitoring applied and monitored continuously throughout the procedure. 2 liters of oxygen via nasal cannula was applied to the nasopharynx with 100% saturations achieved. Topical anesthesia with 10 cc of 4% Xylocaine was applied to the right nares and oropharynx. Subsequent to this, the patient was premedicated with 50 mg of Demerol and then Versed 1 mg sequentially for a total of 2 mg. With this, adequate consciousness sedation was achieved. 3 cc of 4% viscous Xylocaine was applied to the right nares. The bronchoscope was then advanced through the right nares into the nasopharynx and oropharynx.The oropharynx and larynx were well visualized and showed mild erythema, mild edema, otherwise negative.There was normal vocal cord motion without masses or lesions. Additional topical anesthesia with 2% Xylocaine was applied to the larynx and subsequently throughout the tracheobronchial tree for a total of 18 cc. The bronchoscope was then advanced through the larynx into the trachea. The trachea showed mild evidence of erythema and moderate amounts of clear frothy secretions. These were suctioned clear. The bronchoscope was then advanced through the carina, which was sharp. Then advanced into the left main stem and each segment, subsegement in the left upper lingula and lower lobe was visualized. There was mild tracheobronchitis with mild friability throughout. There was modest amounts of white secretion. There were no other findings including evidence of mass, anatomic distortions, or hemorrhage. The bronchoscope was subsequently withdrawn and advanced into the right mainstem. Again, each segment and subsegment was well visualized. The right upper lobe anatomy showed some segmental distortion with dilation and irregularities both at the apical region as well as in the subsegments of the anteroapical and posterior segments. No specific masses or other lesions were identified throughout the tracheobronchial tree on the right. There was mild tracheal bronchitis with friability. Upon coughing, there was punctate hemorrhage. The bronchoscope was then advanced through the bronchus intermedius and the right middle lobe and right lower lobe. These again had no other anatomic lesions identified. The bronchoscope was then wedged in the right middle lobe and bronchoalveolar samples were obtained. The bronchoscope was withdrawn and the area was suctioned clear. The bronchoscope was then advanced into the apical segment of the right upper lobe and the bronchioalveolar lavage again performed. Samples were taken and the bronchoscope was removed suctioned the area clear. The bronchoscope was then re-advanced into the right lower lobe and multiple transbronchial biopsies were taken under fluoroscopic guidance in the posterior and lateral segments of the right lower lobe. Minimal hemorrhage was identified and suctioned clear without difficulty. The bronchoscope was then withdrawn to the mainstem. The area was suctioned clear. Fluoroscopy revealed no evidence of pneumothorax. The bronchoscope was then withdrawn. The patient tolerated the procedure well without evidence of desaturation or complications."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:1. Chronic renal failure.2. Thrombosed left forearm arteriovenous Gore-Tex bridge fistula.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:1. Chronic renal failure.2. Thrombosed left forearm arteriovenous Gore-Tex bridge fistula.PROCEDURE PERFORMED:1. Fogarty thrombectomy, left forearm arteriovenous Gore-Tex bridge fistula.2. Revision of distal anastomosis with 7 mm interposition Gore-Tex graft.ANESTHESIA: General with controlled ventillation.GROSS FINDINGS: The patient is a 58-year-old black male with chronic renal failure. He undergoes dialysis through the left forearm bridge fistula and has small pseudoaneurysms at the needle puncture sites level. There is narrowing at the distal anastomosis due to intimal hypoplasia and the vein beyond it was of good quality.OPERATIVE PROCEDURE: The patient was taken to the OR suite, placed in supine position. General anesthetic was administered. Left arm was prepped and draped in appropriate manner. A Pfannenstiel skin incision was created just below the antecubital crease just deeper to the subcutaneous tissue. Utilizing both blunt and sharp dissections segment of the fistula was isolated ________ vessel loop. Transverse graftotomy was created. A #4 Fogarty catheter passed proximally and distally restoring inflow and meager inflow. A fistulogram was performed and the above findings were noted. In a retrograde fashion, the proximal anastomosis was patent. There was no narrowing within the forearm graft. Both veins were flushed with heparinized saline and controlled with a vascular clamp. A longitudinal incision was then created in the upper arm just deep into the subcutaneous tissue fascia. Utilizing both blunt and sharp dissection, the brachial vein as well as distal anastomosis was isolated. The distal anastomosis amputated off the fistula and oversewn with continuous running #6-0 Prolene suture tied upon itself. The vein was controlled with vascular clamps. Longitudinal venotomy created along the anteromedial wall. A 7 mm graft was brought on to the field and this was cut to shape and size. This was sewed to the graft in an end-to-side fashion with U-clips anchoring the graft at the heel and toe with interrupted #6-0 Prolene sutures. Good backflow bleeding was confirmed. The vein flushed with heparinized saline and graft was controlled with vascular clamp. The end of the insertion graft was cut to shape in length and sutured to the graft in an end-to-end fashion with continuous running #6-0 Prolene suture. Good backflow bleeding was confirmed. The graftotomy was then closed with interrupted #6-0 Prolene suture. Flow through the fistula was permitted, a good flow passed. The wound was copiously irrigated with antibiotic solution. Sponge, needles, instrument counts were correct. All surgical sites were inspected. Good hemostasis was noted. The incision was closed in layers with absorbable sutures. Sterile dressing was applied. The patient tolerated the procedure well and returned to the recovery room in apparent stable condition."
"SUBJECTIVE: This is a 42-year-old white female who comes in today for a complete physical and follow up on asthma. She says her asthma has been worse over the last three months. She has been using her inhaler daily. Her allergies seem to be a little bit worse as well. Her husband has been hauling corn and this seems to aggravate things. She has not been taking Allegra daily but when she does take it, it seems to help somewhat. She has not been taking her Flonase which has helped her in the past. She also notes that in the past she was on Advair but she got some vaginal irritation with that.She had been noticing increasing symptoms of irritability and PMS around her menstrual cycle. She has been more impatient around that time. Says otherwise her mood is normal during the rest of the month. It usually is worse the week before her cycle and improves the day her menstrual cycle starts. Menses have been regular but somewhat shorter than in the past. Occasionally she will get some spotting after her cycles. She denies any hot flashes or night sweats with this. In reviewing the chart it is noted that she did have 3+ blood with what appeared to be a urinary tract infection previously. Her urine has not been rechecked. She recently had lab work and cholesterol drawn for a life insurance application and is going to send me those results when available.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: As above. No fevers, no headaches, no shortness of breath currently. No chest pain or tightness. No abdominal pain, no heartburn, no constipation, diarrhea or dysuria. Occasional stress incontinence. No muscle or joint pain. No concerns about her skin. No polyphagia, polydipsia or polyuria.PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for asthma, allergic rhinitis and cervical dysplasia.SOCIAL HISTORY: She is married. She is a nonsmoker.MEDICATIONS: Proventil and Allegra.ALLERGIES: Sulfa.OBJECTIVE:Vital signs: Her weight is 151 pounds. Blood pressure is 110/60. Pulse is 72. Temperature is 97.1 degrees. Respirations are 20.General: This is a well-developed, well-nourished 42-year-old white female, alert and oriented in no acute distress. Affect is appropriate and is pleasant.HEENT: Normocephalic, atraumatic. Tympanic membranes are clear. Conjunctivae are clear. Pupils are equal, round and reactive to light. Nares without turbinate edema. Oropharynx is nonerythematous.Neck: Supple without lymphadenopathy, thyromegaly, carotid bruit or JVD.Chest: Clear to auscultation bilaterally.Cardiovascular: Regular rate and rhythm without murmur.Abdomen: Soft, nontender, nondistended. Normoactive bowel sounds. No masses or organomegaly to palpation.Extremities: Without cyanosis or edema.Skin: Without abnormalities.Breasts: Normal symmetrical breasts without dimpling or retraction. No nipple discharge. No masses or lesions to palpation. No axillary masses or lymphadenopathy.Genitourinary: Normal external genitalia. The walls of the vaginal vault are visualized with normal pink rugae with no lesions noted. Cervix is visualized without lesion. She has a moderate amount of thick white/yellow vaginal discharge in the vaginal vault. No cervical motion tenderness. No adnexal tenderness or fullness.ASSESSMENT/PLAN:1. Asthma. Seems to be worse than in the past. She is just using her Proventil inhaler but is using it daily. We will add Flovent 44 mcg two puffs p.o. b.i.d. May need to increase the dose. She did get some vaginal irritation with Advair in the past but she is willing to retry that if it is necessary. May also need to consider Singulair. She is to call me if she is not improving. If her shortness of breath worsens she is to call me or go into the emergency department. We will plan on following up for reevaluation in one month.2. Allergic rhinitis. We will plan on restarting Allegra and Flonase daily for the time being.3. Premenstrual dysphoric disorder. She may have some perimenopausal symptoms. We will start her on fluoxetine 20 mg one tablet p.o. q.d.4. Hematuria. Likely this is secondary to urinary tract infection but we will repeat a UA to document clearing. She does have some frequent dysuria but is not having it currently.5. Cervical dysplasia. Pap smear is taken. We will notify the patient of results. If normal we will go back to yearly Pap smear. She is scheduled for screening mammogram and instructed on monthly self-breast exam techniques. Recommend she get 1200 mg of calcium and 400 U of vitamin D a day."
"CHIEF COMPLAINT (1/1): This 62 year old female presents today for evaluation of angina.Associated signs and symptoms: Associated signs and symptoms include chest pain, nausea, pain radiating to the arm and pain radiating to the jaw.Context: The patient has had no previous treatments for this condition.Duration: Condition has existed for 5 hours.Quality: Quality of the pain is described by the patient as crushing.Severity: Severity of condition is severe and unchanged.Timing (onset/frequency): Onset was sudden and with exercise. Patient has the following coronary risk factors: smoking 1 packs/day for 40 years and elevated cholesterol for 5 years. Patient's elevated cholesterol is not being treated with medication. Menopause occurred at age 53.ALLERGIES: No known medical allergies.MEDICATION HISTORY: Patient is currently taking Estraderm 0.05 mg/day transdermal patch.PMH: Past medical history unremarkable.PSH: No previous surgeries.SOCIAL HISTORY: Patient admits tobacco use She relates a smoking history of 40 pack years.FAMILY HISTORY: Patient admits a family history of heart attack associated with father (deceased).ROS: Unremarkable with exception of chief complaint.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:General: Patient is a 62 year old female who appears pleasant, her given age, well developed,oriented, well nourished, alert and moderately overweight.Vital Signs: BP Sitting: 174/92 Resp: 28 HR: 88 Temp: 98.6 Height: 5 ft. 2 in. Weight: 150 lbs.HEENT: Inspection of head and face shows head that is normocephalic, atraumatic, without any gross or neck masses. Ocular motility exam reveals muscles are intact. Pupil exam reveals round and equally reactive to light and accommodation. There is no conjunctival inflammation nor icterus. Inspection of nose reveals no abnormalities. Inspection of oral mucosa and tongue reveals no pallor or cyanosis. Inspection of the tongue reveals normal color, good motility and midline position. Examination of oropharynx reveals the uvula rises in the midline. Inspection of lips, teeth, gums, and palate reveals healthy teeth, healthy gums, no gingivalhypertrophy, no pyorrhea and no abnormalities.Neck: Neck exam reveals neck supple and trachea that is midline, without adenopathy or crepitance palpable.Thyroid examination reveals smooth and symmetric gland with no enlargement, tenderness or masses noted.Carotid pulses are palpated bilaterally, are symmetric and no bruits auscultated over the carotid and vertebral arteries. Jugular veins examination reveals no distention or abnormal waves were noted. Neck lymph nodes are not noted.Back: Examination of the back reveals no vertebral or costovertebral angle tenderness and no kyphosis or scoliosis noted.Chest: Chest inspection reveals intercostal interspaces are not widened, no splinting, chest contours are normal and normal expansion. Chest palpation reveals no abnormal tactile fremitus.Lungs: Chest percussion reveals resonance. Assessment of respiratory effort reveals even respirations without use of accessory muscles and diaphragmatic movement normal. Auscultation of lungs reveal diminished breath sounds bibasilar.Heart: The apical impulse on heart palpation is located in the left border of cardiac dullness in the midclavicular line, in the left fourth intercostal space in the midclavicular line and no thrill noted. Heart auscultation reveals rhythm is regular, normal S1 and S2, no murmurs, gallop, rubs or clicks and no abnormal splitting of the second heart sound which moves normally with respiration. Right leg and left leg shows evidence of edema +6.Abdomen: Abdomen soft, nontender, bowel sounds present x 4 without palpable masses. Palpation of liver reveals no abnormalities with respect to size, tenderness or masses. Palpation of spleen reveals no abnormalities with respect to size, tenderness or masses. Examination of abdominal aorta shows normal size without presence of systolic bruit.Extremities: Right thumb and left thumb reveals clubbing.Pulses: The femoral, popliteal, dorsalis, pedis and posterior tibial pulses in the lower extremities are equal and normal. The brachial, radial and ulnar pulses in the upper extremities are equal and normal. Examination of peripheral vascular system reveals varicosities absent, extremities warm to touch, edema present - pitting and pulses are full to palpation. Femoral pulses are 2 /4, bilateral. Pedal pulses are 2 /4, bilateral.Neurological: Testing of cranial nerves reveals nerves intact. Oriented to person, place and time. Mood and affect normal and appropriate to situation.Deep tendon reflexes normal. Touch, pin, vibratory and proprioception sensations are normal. Babinski reflex is absent. Coordination is normal. Speech is not aphasic. Musculoskeletal: Muscle strength is 5/5 for all groups tested. Gait and station examination reveals midposition without abnormalities.Skin: No skin rash, subcutaneous nodules, lesions or ulcers observed. Skin is warm and dry with normal turgor and there is no icterus.Lymphatics: No lymphadenopathy noted.IMPRESSION: Angina pectoris, other and unspecified.PLAN: DIAGNOSTIC & LAB ORDERS: Ordered serum creatine kinase isoenzymes (CK isoenzymes). Electrocardiogram, routine ECG with at least 12 leads; with interpretation and report. The following cardiac risk factor modifications are recommended: quit smoking and reduce LDL cholesterol to below 120 mg/dl.PATIENT INSTRUCTIONS:Patient received literature on angina.PRESCRIPTIONS:Nitroglycerin; dosage: 0.1 mg/hr film, extended release Sig: as needed for chest pain, dispense:20, refills: 0, allow generic: no.Digoxin; dosage: 0.125 mg tablet Sig: 1 qd, dispense: 30, refills: 0, allow generic: yes."
"PROCEDURE PERFORMED:1. Left heart catheterization.2. Bilateral selective coronary angiography.ANESTHESIA: 1% lidocaine and IV sedation, including fentanyl 25 mcg.INDICATION: The patient is a 65-year-old male with known moderate mitral regurgitation with partial flail of the P2 and P3 gallops who underwent outpatient evaluation for increasingly severed decreased functional capacity and retrosternal chest pain that was aggravated by exertion and decreased with rest. It was accompanied by diaphoresis and shortness of breath. The patient was felt to be a candidate for mitral valve repair versus mitral valve replacement and underwent a stress test as part of his evaluation for chest pain. He underwent adenosine Cardiolite, which revealed 2 mm ST segment depression in leads II, III aVF, and V3, V4, and V5. Stress images revealed left ventricular dilatations suggestive of multivessel disease. He is undergoing evaluation today as a part of preoperative evaluation and because of the positive stress test.PROCEDURE: After risks, benefits, alternatives of the above mentioned procedure were explained to the patient in detail, informed consent was obtained both verbally and writing. The patient was taken to the Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory where the procedure was performed. The right inguinal area was sterilely cleansed with a Betadine solution and the patient was draped in the usual manner. 1% lidocaine solution was used to anesthetize the right inguinal area. Once adequate anesthesia had been obtained, a thin-walled Argon needle was used to cannulate the right femoral artery.The guidewire was then advanced through the lumen of the needle without resistance and a small nick was made in the skin. The needle was removed and a pressure was held. A #6 French arterial sheath was advanced over the guidewire without resistance. The dilator and guidewire were removed and the sheath was flushed. A Judkins left #4 catheter was advanced to the ascending aorta under direct fluoroscopic visualization with the use of the guidewire. The guidewire was removed and the catheter was connected to the manifold and flushed. The ostium of the left main coronary artery was carefully engaged and limited evaluation was performed after noticing that the patient had a significant left main coronary artery stenosis. The catheter was withdrawn from the ostium of the left main coronary artery and the guidewire was inserted through the tip of the catheter. The catheter was removed over guidewire and a Judkins right #4 catheter was advanced to the ascending aorta under direct fluoroscopic visualization with use of a guidewire. The guidewire was removed and the catheter was connected to the manifold and flushed. The ostium of the right coronary artery was carefully engaged and using hand injections of nonionic contrast material, the right coronary artery was evaluated in both diagonal views. This catheter was removed. The sheath was flushed the final time. The patient was taken to the postcatheterization holding area in stable condition.FINDINGS:LEFT MAIN CORONARY ARTERY: This vessel is seen to be heavily calcified throughout its course. Begins as a moderate caliber vessel. There is a 60% stenosis in the distal portion with extension of the lesion to the ostium and proximal portions of the left anterior descending and left circumflex coronary artery.LEFT ANTERIOR DESCENDING CORONARY ARTERY: This vessel is heavily calcified in its proximal portion. It is of moderate caliber and seen post anteriorly in the intraventricular groove and wraps around the apex. There is a 90% stenosis in the proximal portion and 90% ostial stenosis in the first and second anterolateral branches. There is sequential 80% and 90% stenosis in the mid-portion of the vessel. Otherwise, the LAD is seen to be diffusely diseased.LEFT CIRCUMFLEX CORONARY ARTERY: This vessel is also calcified in its proximal portion. There is a greater than 90% ostial stenosis, which appears to be an extension of the lesion in the left main coronary artery. There is a greater than 70% stenosis in the proximal portion of the first large obtuse marginal branch, otherwise, the circumflex system is seen to be diffusely diseased.RIGHT CORONARY ARTERY: This is a large caliber vessel and is the dominant system. There is diffuse luminal irregularities throughout the vessel and a 80% to 90% stenosis at the bifurcation above the posterior descending artery and posterolateral branch.IMPRESSION:1. Three-vessel coronary artery disease as described above.2. Moderate mitral regurgitation per TEE.3. Status post venous vein stripping of the left lower extremity and varicosities in both lower extremities.4. Long-standing history of phlebitis.PLAN: Consultation will be obtained with Cardiovascular and Thoracic Surgery for CABG and mitral valve repair versus replacement."
"PROCEDURES:1. Right and left heart catheterization.2. Coronary angiography.3. Left ventriculography.PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: After informed consent was obtained, the patient was taken to the cardiac catheterization laboratory. Patient was prepped and draped in sterile fashion. Via modified Seldinger technique, the right femoral vein was punctured and a 6-French sheath was placed over a guide wire. Via modified Seldinger technique, right femoral artery was punctured and a 6-French sheath was placed over a guide wire. The diagnostic procedure was performed using the JL-4, JR-4, and a 6-French pigtail catheter along with a Swan-Ganz catheter. The patient tolerated the procedure well and there were immediate complications were noted. Angio-Seal was used at the end of the procedure to obtain hemostasis.CORONARY ARTERIES:LEFT MAIN CORONARY ARTERY: The left main coronary artery is of moderate size vessel with bifurcation into the left descending coronary artery and circumflex coronary artery. No significant stenotic lesions were identified in the left main coronary artery.LEFT ANTERIOR DESCENDING CORONARY ARTERY: The left descending artery is a moderate sized vessel, which gives rise to multiple diagonals and perforating branches. No significant stenotic lesions were identified in the left anterior descending coronary artery system.CIRCUMFLEX ARTERY: The circumflex artery is a moderate sized vessel. The vessel is a stenotic lesion. After the right coronary artery, the RCA is a moderate size vessel with no focal stenotic lesions.HEMODYNAMIC DATA: Capital wedge pressure was 22. The aortic pressure was 52/24. Right ventricular pressure was 58/14. RA pressure was 14. The aortic pressure was 127/73. Left ventricular pressure was 127/15. Cardiac output of 9.2.LEFT VENTRICULOGRAM: The left ventriculogram was performed in the RAO projection only. In the RAO projection, the left ventriculogram revealed dilated left ventricle with mild global hypokinesis and estimated ejection fraction of 45 to 50%. Severe mitral regurgitation was also noted.IMPRESSION:1. Left ventricular dilatation with global hypokinesis and estimated ejection fraction of 45 to 50%.2. Severe mitral regurgitation.3. No significant coronary artery disease identified in the left main coronary artery, left anterior descending coronary artery, circumflex coronary artery or the right coronary artery."
"PROCEDURES: Left heart catheterization, left ventriculography, and left and right coronary arteriography.INDICATIONS: Chest pain and non-Q-wave MI with elevation of troponin I only.TECHNIQUE: The patient was brought to the procedure room in satisfactory condition. The right groin was prepped and draped in routine fashion. An arterial sheath was inserted into the right femoral artery.Left and right coronary arteries were studied with a 6FL4 and 6FR4 Judkins catheters respectively. Cine coronary angiograms were done in multiple views.Left heart catheterization was done using the 6-French pigtail catheter. Appropriate pressures were obtained before and after the left ventriculogram, which was done in the RAO view.At the end of the procedure, the femoral catheter was removed and Angio-Seal was applied without any complications.FINDINGS:1. LV is normal in size and shape with good contractility, EF of 60%.2. LMCA normal.3. LAD has 20% to 30% stenosis at the origin.4. LCX is normal.5. RCA is dominant and normal.RECOMMENDATIONS: Medical management, diet, and exercise. Aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily, p.r.n. nitroglycerin for chest pain. Follow up in the clinic."
"PROCEDURE PERFORMED: Right heart catheterization.INDICATION: Refractory CHF to maximum medical therapy.PROCEDURE: After risks, benefits, and alternatives of the above-mentioned procedure were explained to the patient and the patient's family in detail, informed consent was obtained both verbally and in writing. The patient was taken to Cardiac Catheterization Suite where the right internal jugular region was prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion. 1% lidocaine solution was used to infiltrate the skin overlying the right internal jugular vein. Once adequate anesthesia has been obtained, a thin-walled #18 gauge Argon needle was used to cannulate the right internal jugular vein. A steel guidewire was then inserted through the needle into the vessel without resistance. Small nick was then made in the skin and the needle was removed. An #8.5 French venous sheath was then advanced over the guidewire into the vascular lumen without resistance. The guidewire and dilator were then removed. The sheath was then flushed. A Swan-Ganz catheter was inserted to 20 cm and the balloon was inflated. Under fluoroscopic guidance, the catheter was advanced into the right atrium through the right ventricle and into the pulmonary artery wedge position. Hemodynamics were measured along the way. Pulmonary artery saturation was obtained. The Swan was then kept in place for the patient to be transferred to the ICU for further medical titration. The patient tolerated the procedure well. The patient returned to the cardiac catheterization holding area in stable and satisfactory condition.FINDINGS: Body surface area equals 2.04, hemoglobin equals 9.3, O2 is at 2 liters nasal cannula. Pulmonary artery saturation equals 37.8. Pulse oximetry on 2 liters nasal cannula equals 93%. Right atrial pressure is 8, right ventricular pressure equals 59/9, pulmonary artery pressure equals 61/31 with mean of 43, pulmonary artery wedge pressure equals 21, cardiac output equals 3.3 by the Fick method, cardiac index is 1.6 by the Fick method, systemic vascular resistance equals 1821, and transpulmonic gradient equals 22.IMPRESSION: Exam and Swan findings consistent with low perfusion given that the mixed venous O2 is only 38% on current medical therapy as well as elevated right-sided filling pressures and a high systemic vascular resistance.PLAN: Given that the patient is unable to tolerate vasodilator therapy secondary to significant orthostasis and the fact that the patient will not respond to oral titration at this point due to lack of cardiac reserve, the patient will need to be discharged home on Primacor. The patient is unable to continue with his dobutamine therapy secondary to nonsustained ventricular tachycardia. At this time, we will transfer the patient to the Intensive Care Unit for titration of the Primacor therapy. We will also increase his Lasix to 80 mg IV q.d. We will increase his amiodarone to 400 mg daily. We will also continue with his Coumadin therapy. As stated previously, we will discontinue vasodilator therapy starting with the Isordil."
"INDICATION: Coronary artery disease, severe aortic stenosis by echo.PROCEDURE PERFORMED:1. Left heart catheterization.2. Right heart catheterization.3. Selective coronary angiography.PROCEDURE: The patient was explained about all the risks, benefits and alternatives to the procedure. The patient agreed to proceed and informed consent was signed.Both groins were prepped and draped in usual sterile fashion. After local anesthesia with 2% lidocaine, 6-French sheath was inserted in the right femoral artery and 7-French sheath was inserted in the right femoral vein. Then right heart cath was performed using 7-French Swan-Ganz catheter. Catheter was placed in the pulmonary capillary wedge position. Pulmonary capillary wedge pressure, PA pressure was obtained, cardiac output was obtained, then RV, RA pressures were obtained. The right heart catheter _______ pulled out. Then selective coronary angiography was performed using 6-French JL4 and 6-French 3DRC catheter. Then attempt was made to cross the aortic valve with 6-French pigtail catheter, but it was unsuccessful. After the procedure, catheters were pulled out, sheath was pulled out and hemostasis was obtained by manual pressure. The patient tolerated the procedure well. There were no complications.HEMODYNAMICS:1. Cardiac output was 4.9 per liter per minute. Pulmonary capillary wedge pressure, mean was 7, PA pressure was 20/14, RV 26/5, RA mean pressure was 5.2. Coronary angiography, left main is calcified _______ dense complex.3. LAD proximal 70% calcified stenosis present and patent stent to the mid LAD and diagonal 1 is a moderate-size vessel, has 70% stenosis. Left circumflex has diffuse luminal irregularities. OM1 has 70% stenosis, is a moderate-size vessel. Right coronary is dominant and has minimal luminal irregularities.SUMMARY: Three-vessel coronary artery disease with aortic stenosis by echo with normal pulmonary artery systolic pressure.RECOMMENDATION: Aortic valve replacement with coronary artery bypass surgery."
"CLINICAL INDICATION: Normal stress test.PROCEDURES PERFORMED:1. Left heart cath.2. Selective coronary angiography.3. LV gram.4. Right femoral arteriogram.5. Mynx closure device.PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: The patient was explained about all the risks, benefits, and alternatives of this procedure. The patient agreed to proceed and informed consent was signed.Both groins were prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion. After local anesthesia with 2% lidocaine, a 6-French sheath was inserted in the right femoral artery. Left and right coronary angiography was performed using 6-French JL4 and 6-French 3DRC catheters. Then, LV gram was performed using 6-French pigtail catheter. Post LV gram, LV-to-aortic gradient was obtained. Then, the right femoral arteriogram was performed. Then, the Mynx closure device was used for hemostasis. There were no complications.HEMODYNAMICS: LVEDP was 9. There was no LV-to-aortic gradient.CORONARY ANGIOGRAPHY:1. Left main is normal. It bifurcates into LAD and left circumflex.2. Proximal LAD at the origin of big diagonal, there is 50% to 60% calcified lesion present. Rest of the LAD free of disease.3. Left circumflex is a large vessel and with minor plaque.4. Right coronary is dominant and also has proximal 40% stenosis.SUMMARY:1. Nonobstructive coronary artery disease, LAD proximal at the origin of big diagonal has 50% to 60% stenosis, which is calcified.2. RCA has 40% proximal stenosis.3. Normal LV systolic function with LV ejection fraction of 60%.PLAN: We will treat with medical therapy. If the patient becomes symptomatic, we will repeat stress test. If there is ischemic event, the patient will need surgery for the LAD lesion. For the time being, we will continue with the medical therapy."
"PROCEDURES PERFORMED:1. Left heart catheterization.2. Bilateral selective coronary angiography.3. Left ventriculogram was not performed.INDICATION: Non-ST elevation MI.PROCEDURE: After risks, benefits, and alternatives of the above-mentioned procedure were explained in detail to the patient, informed consent was obtained both verbally and in writing. The patient was taken to cardiac catheterization suite where the right femoral region was prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion. 1% lidocaine solution was used to infiltrate the skin overlying the right femoral artery. Once adequate anesthesia had been obtained, a thin-walled #18 gauge Argon needle was used to cannulate the right femoral artery. A steel guidewire was inserted through the needle into the vascular lumen without resistance. A small nick was then made in the skin. The pressure was held. The needle was removed over the guidewire. Next, a Judkins left #4 catheter was advanced to the level of the ascending aorta under direct fluoroscopic visualization with the use of a guidewire. The guidewire was removed. The catheter was connected to the manifold and flushed. The ostium of the left main coronary artery was engaged. Using hand injections of nonionic contrast material, the left coronary system was evaluated in several different views. Once an adequate study had been performed, the catheter was removed from the ostium of the left main coronary artery and a steel guidewire was inserted through the catheter. The catheter was then removed over the guidewire.Next, a Judkins right #4 catheter was advanced to the level of the ascending aorta under direct fluoroscopic visualization with the use of a guidewire. The guidewire was removed. The catheter was connected to manifold and flushed. The catheter did slip into the left ventricle. During the rotation, the LVEDP was then measured. The ostium of the right coronary artery was then engaged. Using hand injections of nonionic contrast material, the right coronary system was evaluated in several different views. Once adequate study has been performed, the catheter was then removed. The sheath was lastly flushed for the final time.FINDINGS:LEFT MAIN CORONARY ARTERY: The left main coronary artery is a moderate caliber vessel, which bifurcates into the left anterior descending and circumflex arteries. There is no evidence of any hemodynamically significant stenosis.LEFT ANTERIOR DESCENDING ARTERY: The LAD is a moderate caliber vessel, which is subtotaled in its mid portion for approximately 1.5 cm to 1 cm with subsequent TIMI-I flow distally. The distal portion was diffusely diseased. The proximal portion otherwise shows minor luminal irregularities. The first diagonal branch demonstrated minor luminal irregularities throughout.CIRCUMFLEX ARTERY: The circumflex is a moderate caliber vessel, which traverses through the atrioventricular groove. There is a 60% proximal lesion and a 90% mid lesion prior to the takeoff of the first obtuse marginal branch. The first obtuse marginal branch demonstrates minor luminal irregularities throughout.RIGHT CORONARY ARTERY: The RCA is a moderate caliber vessel, which demonstrates a 90% mid stenotic lesion. The dominant coronary artery gives off the posterior descending artery and posterolateral artery. The left ventricular end-diastolic pressure was approximately 22 mmHg. It should be noted that during injection of the contrast agent that there was ST elevation in the inferior leads, which resolved after the injection was complete.IMPRESSION:1. Three-vessel coronary artery disease involving a subtotaled left anterior descending artery with TIMI-I flow distally and 90% circumflex lesion and 90% right coronary artery lesion.2. Mildly elevated left-sided filling pressures.PLAN:1. The patient will be transferred to Providence Hospital today for likely PCI of the mid LAD lesion with a surgical evaluation for a coronary artery bypass grafting. These findings and plan were discussed in detail with the patient and the patient's family. The patient is agreeable.2. The patient will be continued on aggressive medical therapy including beta-blocker, aspirin, ACE inhibitor, and statin therapy. The patient will not be placed on Plavix secondary to the possibility for coronary bypass grafting. In light of the patient's history of cranial aneurysmal bleed, the patient will be held off of Lovenox and Integrilin."
"PROCEDURE PERFORMED:1. Right heart catheterization.2. Left heart catheterization.3. Left ventriculogram.4. Aortogram.5. Bilateral selective coronary angiography.ANESTHESIA: 1% lidocaine and IV sedation including Versed 1 mg.INDICATION: The patient is a 48-year-old female with severe mitral stenosis diagnosed by echocardiography, moderate aortic insufficiency and moderate to severe pulmonary hypertension who is being evaluated as a part of a preoperative workup for mitral and possible aortic valve repair or replacement. She has had atrial fibrillation and previous episodes of congestive heart failure. She has dyspnea on exertion and occasionally orthopnea and paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea.PROCEDURE: After the risks, benefits, and alternatives of the above-mentioned procedure were explained to the patient in detail, informed consent was obtained, both verbally and in writing. The patient was taken to the Cardiac Catheterization Lab where the procedure was performed. The right inguinal area was thoroughly cleansed with Betadine solution and the patient was draped in the usual manner. 1% lidocaine solution was used to anesthetize the right inguinal area. Once adequate anesthesia had been attained, a thing wall Argon needle was used to cannulate the right femoral vein. A guidewire was advanced into the lumen of the vein without resistance. The needle was removed and the guidewire was secured to the sterile field. The needle was flushed and then used to cannulate the right femoral artery. A guidewire was advanced through the lumen of the needle without resistance. A small nick was made in the skin and the needle was removed. This pressure was held. A #6 French arterial sheath was advanced over the guidewire without resistance. The dilator and guidewire were removed. FiO2 sample was obtained and the sheath was flushed. An #8 French sheath was advanced over the guidewire into the femoral vein after which the dilator and guidewire were removed and the sheath was flushed. A Swan-Ganz catheter was advanced through the venous sheath into a pulmonary capillary was positioned and the balloon was temporarily deflated. An angulated pigtail catheter was advanced into the left ventricle under direct fluoroscopic visualization with the use of a guidewire. The guidewire was removed. The catheter was connected to a manifold and flushed. Left ventricular pressures were continuously measured and the balloon was re-inflated and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure was remeasured. Using dual transducers together and the mitral valve radius was estimated. The balloon was deflated and mixed venous sample was obtained. Hemodynamics were measured. The catheter was pulled back in to the pulmonary artery right ventricle and right atrium. The right atrial sample was obtained and was negative for shunt. The Swan-Ganz catheter was then removed and a left ventriculogram was performed in the RAO projection with a single power injection of non-ionic contrast material. Pullback was then performed which revealed a minimal LV-AO gradient. Since the patient had aortic insufficiency on her echocardiogram, an aortogram was performed in the LAO projection with a single power injection of non-ionic contrast material. The pigtail catheter was then removed and a Judkins left #4 catheter was advanced to the level of the ascending aorta under direct fluoroscopic visualization with the use of a guidewire. The guidewire was removed. The catheter was connected to the manifold and flushed. The ostium of the left main coronary artery was carefully engaged. Using multiple hand injections of non-ionic contrast material, the left coronary system was evaluated in different views. This catheter was then removed and a Judkins right #4 catheter was advanced to the level of the ascending aorta under direct fluoroscopic visualization with the use of a guidewire. The guidewire was removed. The catheter was connected to the manifold and flushed. The ostium of the right coronary artery was then engaged and using hand injections of non-ionic contrast material, the right coronary system was evaluated in different views. This catheter was removed. The sheaths were flushed final time. The patient was taken to the Postcatheterization Holding Area in stable condition.FINDINGS:HEMODYNAMICS: Right atrial pressure 9 mmHg, right ventricular pressure is 53/14 mmHg, pulmonary artery pressure 62/33 mmHg with a mean of 46 mmHg. Pulmonary capillary wedge pressure is 29 mmHg. Left ventricular end diastolic pressure was 13 mmHg both pre and post left ventriculogram. Cardiac index was 2.4 liters per minute/m2. Cardiac output 4.0 liters per minute. The mitral valve gradient was 24.5 and mitral valve area was calculated to be 0.67 cm2. The aortic valve area is calculated to be 2.08 cm2.LEFT VENTRICULOGRAM: No segmental wall motion abnormalities were noted. The left ventricle was somewhat hyperdynamic with an ejection fraction of 70%. 2+ to 3+ mitral regurgitation was noted.AORTOGRAM: There was 2+ to 3+ aortic insufficiency noted. There was no evidence of aortic aneurysm or dissection.LEFT MAIN CORONARY ARTERY: This was a moderate caliber vessel and it is rather long. It bifurcates into the LAD and left circumflex coronary artery. No angiographically significant stenosis is noted.LEFT ANTERIOR DESCENDING ARTERY: The LAD begins as a moderate caliber vessel ________ anteriorly in the intraventricular groove. It tapers in its mid portion to become small caliber vessel. Luminal irregularities are present, however, no angiographically significant stenosis is noted.LEFT CIRCUMFLEX CORONARY ARTERY: The left circumflex coronary artery begins as a moderate caliber vessel. Small obtuse marginal branches are noted and this is the nondominant system. Lumen irregularities are present throughout the circumflex system. However no angiographically significant stenosis is noted.RIGHT CORONARY ARTERY: This is the moderate caliber vessel and it is the dominant system. No angiographically significant stenosis is noted, however, mild luminal irregularities are noted throughout the vessel.IMPRESSION:1. Nonobstructive coronary artery disease.2. Severe mitral stenosis.3. 2+ to 3+ mitral regurgitation.4. 2+ to 3+ aortic insufficiency."
"PROCEDURES PERFORMED:1. Left heart catheterization.2. Bilateral selective coronary angiography.3. Saphenous vein graft angiography.4. Left internal mammary artery angiography.5. Left ventriculography.INDICATIONS: Persistent chest pain on maximum medical therapy with known history of coronary artery disease, status post coronary artery bypass grafting in year 2000.PROCEDURE: After the risks, benefits, and alternatives of the above-mentioned procedure were explained to the patient in detail, an informed consent was obtained both verbally and in writing. The patient was taken to the Cardiac Catheterization Suite where the right femoral region was prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion. 1% lidocaine solution was then used to infiltrate the skin overlying the right femoral artery. Once adequate anesthesia had been obtained, a thin-walled #18 gauge Argon needle was used to cannulate the right femoral artery. A steel guidewire was then inserted through the needle into the vascular lumen without resistance. A small nick was then made in the skin and its pressure was held. The needle was removed over the guidewire. A #6 French sheath was then advanced over the guidewire into the vascular lumen without resistance. The guidewire and dilator were then removed. The sheath was then flushed. Next, angulated pigtail catheter was advanced to the level of the ascending aorta under direct fluoroscopic visualization with the use of the guidewire. The catheter was then advanced into the left ventricle. The guidewire was then removed. The catheter was connected to the manifold and flushed. LVEDP was then measured and found to be favorable for a left ventriculogram. The left ventriculogram was performed in the RAO position with a single power injection of non-ionic contrast material. LVEDP was then remeasured. Pullback was then performed, which failed to reveal an LVAO gradient. The catheter was then removed. Next, a Judkins left #4 catheter was advanced to the level of the ascending aorta under direct fluoroscopic visualization with the use of a guidewire. The guidewire was removed. The catheter was connected to the manifold and flushed. Using hand injections of non-ionic contrast material, the left coronary system was evaluated in several different views. Once adequate study has been performed, the catheter was removed. Next, a Judkins right #4 catheter was then advanced to the level of the ascending aorta under direct fluoroscopic visualization with the use of a guidewire. The guidewire was removed. The catheter was connected to the manifold and flushed. The ostium of the saphenous vein graft was engaged using hand injections of non-ionic contrast material. The saphenous vein graft was visualized in several different views. The Judkins right catheter was then advanced and the native coronary artery was engaged using hand injections of non-ionic contrast material. Right coronary system was evaluated in several different views. Once adequate study has been performed, the catheter was retracted. We were unable to engage the left subclavian artery thus the catheter was removed over an exchange wire. Next, a multipurpose catheter was advanced over the exchange wire. The wire was then easily passed into the left subclavian artery. The multipurpose catheter was then removed. LIMA catheter was then exchanged over the wire into the left subclavian artery. The guidewire was removed and the catheter was connected to the manifold and flushed. LIMA graft was then engaged using hand injections of non-ionic contrast material. The LIMA graft was evaluated in several different views. Once adequate study has been performed, the LIMA catheter was retracted under fluoroscopic guidance. The sheath was flushed for the final time. The patient was returned to the cardiac catheterization holding area in stable and satisfactory condition.FINDINGS:LEFT VENTRICULOGRAM: There is no evidence of any wall motion abnormalities with an estimated ejection fraction of 60%. Left ventricular end-diastolic pressure was 24 mmHg preinjection and 26 mmHg postinjection. There is no mitral regurgitation. There is no LVAO or pullback.LEFT MAIN CORONARY ARTERY: The left main is a moderate caliber vessel, which bifurcates into the left anterior descending and circumflex arteries. There is no evidence of any hemodynamically significant stenosis.LEFT ANTERIOR DESCENDING ARTERY: The LAD is a small caliber vessel, which traverses through the intraventricular groove and wraps around the apex of the heart. There are luminal irregularities from the mid to distal portion. There is noted to be antegrade flow in the LIMA to LAD graft. There are very small diagonal branches, which are diffusely diseased.CIRCUMFLEX ARTERY: The circumflex is a small caliber vessel, which traverses through the atrioventricular groove. There are minor luminal irregularities throughout. There are very small obtuse marginal branches, which are diffusely diseased.RIGHT CORONARY ARTERY: The RCA is a small vessel with luminal irregularities throughout. The RCA is the dominant coronary artery.Left internal mammary artery graft to the left anterior descending artery failed to demonstrate any hemodynamically significant stenosis. Saphenous vein graft to the obtuse marginal branches is a Y-graft, which bifurcates to the first obtuse marginal and the obtuse marginal branch. The saphenous vein graft to the obtuse marginal branches is widely patent without any evidence of hemodynamically significant disease.IMPRESSION:1. Diffusely diseased native vessels.2. Saphenous vein graft to the obtuse marginal branch is widely patent.3. Left internal mammary artery graft to the left anterior descending artery is patent.4. Normal left ventricular function with ejection fraction of 60%.5. Mildly elevated left-sided filling pressures.PLAN:1. The patient is to continue on her current medical regimen, which includes beta-blocker, aspirin, statin, and Plavix. The patient is unable to tolerate a long-acting nitrate, thus this will be discontinued.2. We will add Norvasc 5 mg daily as well as hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg daily.3. Risk factor modification was discussed with the patient including diet control as well as tobacco cessation.4. The patient will need to be monitored closely for close lipid control as well as blood pressure control."
"PROCEDURE: Left heart catheterization, left ventriculography, coronary angiography, and successful stenting of tight lesion in the distal circumflex and moderately tight lesion in the mid right coronary artery. This gentleman has had a non-Q-wave, troponin-positive myocardial infarction, complicated by ventricular fibrillation.PROCEDURE DETAILS: The patient was brought to the catheterization lab, the chart was reviewed, and informed consent was obtained. Right groin was prepped and draped sterilely and infiltrated 2% Xylocaine. Using the Seldinger technique, a #6-French sheath was placed in the right femoral artery. ACT was checked and was low. Additional heparin was given. A #6-French pigtail catheter was passed. Left ventriculography was performed. The catheter was exchanged for a #6-French JL4 catheter. Nitroglycerin was given in the left main. Left coronary angiography was performed. The catheter was exchanged for a #6-French __________ coronary catheter. Nitroglycerin was given in the right main, and right coronary angiography was performed. Films were closely reviewed, and it was felt that he had a significant lesion in the RCA and the distal left circumflex is basically an OM. Considering his age and his course, it was elected to stent both these lesions. ReoPro was started, and the catheter was exchanged for a #6-French JR4 guide. ReoPro was given in the RCA to prevent no reflow. A 0.014 Universal wire was passed. The lesion was measured. A 4.5 x 18-mm stent was passed and deployed to moderate pressures with an excellent result. The catheter was removed and exchanged for a #6-French JL4 guide. The same wire was passed down the circumflex and the lesion measured. A 2.75 x 15-mm stent was deployed to a moderate pressure with an excellent result. Plavix was given. The catheter was removed and sheath was in place. The results were explained to the patient and his wife.FINDINGS1. Hemodynamics. Please see attached sheet for details. ED was 20. There is no gradient across the aortic valve.2. Left ventriculography revealed septum upper limits of normal size with borderline normal LV systolic function with borderline normal wall motion, in which there is a question of diffuse, very minimal global hypokinesis. There is mild MR noted.3. Coronary angiography.a. Left main normal.b. LAD. Some very minimal luminal irregularities. There is a 1st diagonal which has a branch that is 1.5 mm with a proximal 50% narrowing.c. Left circumflex is basically a marginal branch, in which distally there was a long 98% lesion.d. The RCA is large dominant and has a mid somewhat long 70% lesion.4. Stenting.a. The RCA revealed a lesion that went from 70% to a -5%.B. The circumflex went from 95% to -5%.CONCLUSION1. Decreased left ventricular compliance.2. Borderline normal overall ejection fraction with mild mitral regurgitation.3. Triple-vessel coronary artery disease with a borderline lesion in a very small branch of the 1st diagonal and significant lesions in the mid dominant right coronary artery and the distal circumflex, which is basically old.4. Successful stenting of the right coronary artery and the circumflex.RECOMMENDATION: ReoPro/stent protocol, Plavix for at least 9 months, aggressive control of risk factors. I have ordered Zocor and a fasting lipid panel.AICD will be considered, realizing when this gentleman becomes ischemic he is at high risk for fibrillating."
"PROCEDURE: Left heart catheterization, left and right coronary angiography, left ventricular angiography, and intercoronary stenting of the right coronary artery.PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: The patient was brought to the Catheterization Laboratory. After informed consent, he was medicated with Versed and fentanyl. The right groin was prepped and draped, and infiltrated with 2% Xylocaine. Percutaneously, #6-French arterial sheath was placed. Selective native left and right coronary angiography was performed followed by left ventricular angiography. The patient had a totally occluded right coronary. We initially started with a JR4 guide. We were able to a sport wire through the total occlusion and saw a very tight stenosis. We were able to get a 30 x 13 mm power saver balloon into the stenosis and dilated. We then attempted to put a 30 x 12 mm stent across the stenosis, but we had very little guide support, the guide kept coming out. We then switched to an AL1 guide and that too did not enable us to get anything to cross this lesion. We finally had to go an AL2 guide, we were concerned that this could cause some proximal dissection. That guided seated, we did have initial difficulty getting the wire back across the stenosis, and we did see a little staining suggesting we did have some tearing from the guide tip. The surgeons were put on notice in case we could not get this vessel open, but we were able to re-cross with a sport wire. We then re-dilated the area of stenosis and with good guide support, we were able to get a 30 x 23 mm Vision stent, where the lesion was and post-dilated it to 18 atmospheres. Routine angiography did show that the distal posterolateral branch seems to be occluded, whether this was from distal wire dissection or distal thrombosis was unclear, but we were able to re-wire that area and get a 25 x12 Vision balloon and dilate the area and re-establish flow to the small segment. We then came back because of the residual dissection proximal to the first stent and put a 30 x15 mm Vision stent at 18 atmospheres. Final angiography showed resolution of the dissection. We could see a little staining extrinsic to the stent. No perforation and excellent flow. During the intervention, we did give a bolus and drip of Angiomax. At the end of the procedure, we stopped the Angiomax and gave 600 mg of Plavix. We did a right femoral angiogram; however, the Angio-Seal plug could not take, so we used manual pressure and a Femostop. We transported the patient to his room in stable condition.ANGIOGRAPHIC DATA: Left main coronary is normal. Left anterior descending artery has a fair amount of wall disease proximally about 50 to 60% stenosis of the LAD before it bifurcates into diagonal. The diagonal does appear to have about 50% osteal stenosis. There is a lot of plaquing further down the diagonal, but good flow. The rest of the LAD looked good pass the proximal 60% stenosis and after the diagonal branch. Circumflex artery was nondominant vessel, consisting of an obtuse marginal vessel. The first obtuse marginal had a long 50% narrowing and then the AV groove branch was free of any disease. Some mild collaterals to the right were seen. Right coronary angiography revealed a total occlusion of the right coronary, just about 0.5 cm after its origin. After we got a wire across the area of occlusion, we could see some thrombosis and a 99% stenosis just at the curve. Following the balloon angioplasty, we established good flow down the distal vessel. We still had about residual 70% stenosis. When we had to go back with the AL2 guide, we could see a little bit of staining in the proximal portion of the vessel that we did not notice previously and we felt that the tip of the guide caused a little bit of intimal dissection. We re-dilated and then deployed. Repeat angiography now did show some hang up off dye distally. We never did have the wire that far down, so this was probably felt to be due to distal embolization of some thrombus. After deploying the stent, we had total resolution of the original lesion. We then directed our attention to the posterolateral branch, which the remainder of the vessel was patent giving off a large PDA. The posterolateral branch appeared to be occluded in its mid portion. We got a wire through and dilated this. We then came back and put a second stent in the proximal area of the right coronary proximal and abutting to the previous stent. Repeat angiography now showed no significant dissection, a little bit of contrast getting extrinsic to the stent probably in a little subintimal pouch, but this was excluded by the stent. There were no filling defects in the stent and excellent flow. The distal posterolateral branch did open up, although it was little under-filled and there may have been some mild residual disease there.IMPRESSION: Atherosclerotic heart disease with total occlusion of right coronary, successfully stented to zero residual with repair of a small proximal dissection. Minor distal disease of the posterolateral branch and 60% proximal left anterior descending coronary artery stenosis and 50% diagonal stenosis along with 50% stenosis of the first obtuse marginal branch."
"NAME OF PROCEDURES1. Selective coronary angiography.2. Left heart catheterization.3. Left ventriculography.PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: The right groin was sterilely prepped and draped in the usual fashion. The area of the right coronary artery was anesthetized with 2% lidocaine and a 4-French sheath was placed. Conscious sedation was obtained using a combination of Versed 1 mg and fentanyl 50 mcg. A left #4, 4-French, Judkins catheter was placed and advanced through the ostium of the left main coronary artery. Because of difficulty positioning the catheter, the catheter was removed and a 6-French sheath was placed and a 6-French #4 left Judkins catheter was placed. This was advanced through the ostium of the left main coronary artery where selective angiograms were performed. Following this, the 4-French right Judkins catheter was placed and angiograms of the right coronary were performed. A pigtail catheter was placed and a left heart catheterization was performed, followed by a left ventriculogram. The left heart pullback was performed. The catheter was removed and a small injection of contrast was given to the sheath. The sheath was removed over a wire and an Angio-Seal was placed. There were no complications. Total contrast media was 200 mL of Optiray 350. Fluoroscopy time 5.3 minutes. Total x-ray dose is 1783 mGy.HEMODYNAMICS: Rhythm is sinus throughout the procedure. LV pressure of 155/22 mmHg, aortic pressure of 160/80 mmHg. LV pullback demonstrates no gradient.The right coronary artery is a nondominant vessel and free of disease. This also gives rise to the conus branch and two RV free wall branches. The left main has minor plaquing in the inferior aspect measuring no more than 10% to 15%. This vessel then bifurcates into the LAD and circumflex. The circumflex is a large caliber vessel and is dominant. This vessel gives rise to a large first marginal artery, a moderate sized second marginal branch, and additionally gives rise to a large third marginal artery and the PDA. There was a very eccentric and severe stenosis in the proximal circumflex measuring approximately 90% in severity. The origin of the first marginal artery has a severe stenosis measuring approximately 90% in severity. The distal circumflex has a 60% lesion just prior to the origin of the third marginal branch and PDA.The proximal LAD is ectatic. The LAD gives rise to a large first diagonal artery that has a 90% lesion in its origin and a subtotal occlusion midway down the diagonal. Distal to the origin of this diagonal branch, there is another area of ectasia in the LAD, followed by an area of stenosis that in some views is approximately 50% in severity.The left ventriculogram demonstrates hypokinesis of the distal half of the inferior wall. The overall ejection fraction is preserved. There is moderate dilatation of the aortic root. The calculated ejection fraction is 63%.IMPRESSION1. Left ventricular dysfunction as evidenced by increased left ventricular end diastolic pressure and hypokinesis of the distal inferior wall.2. Coronary artery disease with high-grade and complex lesion in the proximal portion of the dominant large circumflex coronary artery. There is subtotal stenosis at the origin of the first obtuse marginal artery.3. A 60% stenosis in the distal circumflex.4. Ectasia of the proximal left anterior descending with 50% stenosis in the mid left anterior descending.5. Severe stenosis at the origin of the large diagonal artery and subtotal stenosis in the mid segment of this diagonal branch."
"PROCEDURE: Cardiac catheterization by:a. Left heart catheterization.b. Left ventriculography.c. Selective coronary angiography.d. Right femoral artery approach.COMPLICATIONS: None.MEDICATIONS1. IV Versed.2. IV fentanyl.3. Intravenous fluid administration.4. Heparin 3000 units IV.INDICATIONS: This 70-year-old Asian-American presents with chest pain syndrome, abnormal EKG suggesting an acute ST elevation, anterior myocardial infarction, being taken urgently to cardiac catheterization laboratory with possible coronary intervention.NARRATIVE: After detailed informed consent had been obtained. Usual benefits, alternatives, and risks of the procedure had been discussed with the patient, she was agreeable to proceed. The patient was prepped, draped, and anesthetized in the usual manner. Using modified Seldinger technique a 6 French introducer sheath inserted into the right femoral artery. Next, 6 French 3D right coronary catheter was inserted and right coronary angiogram was obtained in various projections. Next, a 6 French JL4.0 left coronary catheter was inserted and left coronary angiogram was obtained in various projections. Next, 4 French pigtail catheter was inserted into left ventricle under fluoroscopic guidance. Left ventricular angiogram was performed. Pre and post angiogram LVEDP, LV, and aortic pressures were obtained. At the end of the procedure catheters were removed and the introducer sheath was secured. The patient was admitted to the TCU in stable condition.FINDINGSHEMODYNAMICSLEFT HEART PRESSURES: LVEDP of 5, left ventricular systolic pressure of 81, central aortic pressure systolic 70, diastolic 20.LEFT VENTRICULOGRAPHY: Left ventricular chamber size is normal. The distal half of the anterior wall of the entire apex and the distal half of the inferior wall are completely akinetic with hypercontractility of the basilar segments of the anterior and inferior wall. Calculated ejection fraction of 51%, which probably overestimates the overall effective ejection fraction. No LV thrombus or mitral regurgitation present.CORONARY ARTERIOGRAPHY1. RIGHT CORONARY ARTERY: The RCA gives rise to a posterior descending artery and a small posterolateral branch. Angiographically the right coronary artery is normal.2. LEFT MAIN ARTERY: The left main vessel is angiographically normal, bifurcates into left anterior descending artery and circumflex system.3. LEFT ANTERIOR DESCENDING ARTERY: The LAD gives rise to a normal complement of septal branches, diagonal branches, and extends around the apex. Angiographically the mid left anterior descending artery and distal left anterior descending artery demonstrates systolic compression of the vessel lumen, consistent with myocardial bridging. The degree of myocardial bridging appears moderate in the mid vessel and mild in the distal segment. Otherwise, there is no evidence of atherosclerotic obstruction.4. CIRCUMFLEX ARTERY: The circumflex gives rise to two large extremely tortuous marginal vessels that extend towards the apex. Angiographically, the circumflex artery is normal.CONCLUSION: This is a 70-year-old female with above clinical and cardiovascular history, who has angiographic evidence of a large anterior apical and inferior apical wall motion abnormality with angiographically patent coronary arteries with two segments of myocardial bridging involving the mid and distal left anterior descending artery. These angiographic findings are consistent with Takasubo syndrome, aka apical ballooning syndrome. The patient will be treated medically."
"NAME OF PROCEDURE: Left heart catheterization with ventriculography, selective coronary arteriographies, successful stenting of the left anterior descending diagonal.INDICATION: Recurrent angina. History of coronary disease.TECHNICAL PROCEDURE: Standard Judkins, right groin.CATHETERS USED: 6-French pigtail, 6-French JL4, 6-French JR4.ANTICOAGULATION: 2000 of heparin, 300 of Plavix, was begun on Integrilin.COMPLICATIONS: None.STENT: For stenting we used a 6-French left Judkins guide. Stent was a 275 x 13 Zeta.DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: I reviewed with the patient the pros, cons, alternatives and risks of catheterization and sedation including myocardial infarction, stroke, death, damage to nerve, artery or vein in the leg, perforation of cardiac chamber, resection of an artery, arrhythmia requiring countershock, infection, bleeding, allergy, and need for vascular surgery. All questions were answered and the patient decided to proceed.HEMODYNAMIC DATA: Aortic pressure was within physiologic range. There was no significant gradient across the aortic valve.ANGIOGRAPHIC DATA1. Ventriculogram: Left ventricle was of normal size and shape with normal wall motion, normal ejection fraction.2. Right coronary artery: Dominant. There was a lesion in the proximal portion in the 60% range, insignificant disease distally.3. Left coronary artery: The left main coronary artery showed insignificant disease. The circumflex arose, showed about 30% proximally. Left anterior descending arose and the previously placed stent was perfectly patent. There was a large diagonal branch which showed 90% stenosis in its proximal portion. There was a lesion in the 30% to 40% range even more proximal.I reviewed with the patient the options of medical therapy, intervention on the culprit versus bypass surgery. He desired that we intervene.Successful stenting of the left anterior descending, diagonal. The guide was placed in the left main. We easily crossed the lesion in the diagonal branch of the left anterior descending. We advanced, applied and post-dilated the 275 x 13 stent. Final angiography showed 0% residual at the site of previous 90% stenosis. The more proximal 30% to 40% lesion was unchanged.CONCLUSION1. Successful stenting of the left anterior descending/diagonal. Initially there was 90% in the diagonal after stenting. There was 0% residual. There was a lesion a bit more proximal in the 40% range.2. Left anterior descending stent remains patent.3. 30% in the circumflex.4. 60% in the right coronary.5. Ejection fraction and wall motion are normal.PLAN: We have stented the culprit lesion. The patient will receive a course of aspirin, Plavix, Integrilin, and statin therapy. We used 6-French Angio-Seal in the groin. All questions have been answered. I have discussed the possibility of restenosis, need for further procedures."
"NAME OF PROCEDURE: Left heart catheterization with ventriculography, selective coronary angiography.INDICATIONS: Acute coronary syndrome.TECHNIQUE OF PROCEDURE: Standard Judkins, right groin. Catheters used were a 6 French pigtail, 6 French JL4, 6 French JR4. ANTICOAGULATION: The patient was on heparin at the time.COMPLICATIONS: None.I reviewed with the patient the pros, cons, alternatives, risks of catheterization and sedation including myocardial infarction, stroke, death, damage to nerve, artery or vein in the leg, perforation of a cardiac chamber, dissection of an artery requiring countershock, infection, bleeding, ATN allergy, need for cardiac surgery. All questions were answered, and the patient desired to proceed.HEMODYNAMIC DATA: Aortic pressure was in the physiologic range. No significant gradient across the aortic valve.ANGIOGRAPHIC DATA1. Ventriculogram: The left ventricle is of normal size and shape, normal wall motion, normal ejection fraction.2. Right coronary artery: Dominant. There was insignificant disease in the system.3. Left coronary: Left main, left anterior descending and circumflex systems showed no significant disease.CONCLUSIONS1. Normal left ventricular systolic function.2. Insignificant coronary disease.PLAN: Based upon this study, medical therapy is warranted. Six-French Angio-Seal was used in the groin."
"NAME OF PROCEDURE1. Left heart catheterization with left ventriculography and selective coronary angiography.2. Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty and stent placement of the right coronary artery.HISTORY: This is a 58-year-old male who presented with atypical chest discomfort. The patient had elevated troponins which were suggestive of a myocardial infarction. The patient is suspected of having significant obstructive coronary artery disease, therefore he is undergoing cardiac catheterization.PROCEDURE DETAILS: Informed consent was given prior to the patient was brought to the catheterization laboratory. The patient was brought to the catheterization laboratory in postabsorptive state. The patient was prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion, 2% Xylocaine solution was used to anesthetize the right femoral region. Using modified Seldinger technique, a 6-French arterial sheath was placed. Then, the patient had already been on heparin. Then, a Judkins left 4 catheter was intubated into the left main coronary artery. Several projections were obtained and the catheter was removed. A 3DRC catheter was intubated into the right coronary artery. Several projections were obtained and the catheter was removed. Then, a 3DRC guiding catheter was intubated into the right coronary artery. Then, a universal wire was advanced across the lesion into the distal right coronary artery. Integrilin was given. Then, a 3.0 x 12 Voyager balloon was inflated at 13 atmospheres for 30 seconds. Then, a projection was obtained. Then, a 3.0 x 15 Vision stent was placed into the distal right coronary artery. The stent was deployed at 15 atmospheres for 25 seconds. Post stent, the patient was given intracoronary nitroglycerin after one projection. Then, there was an attempt to place the intervention wire across the third posterolateral branch which was partially obstructed and this was not successful. Then, a pilot 150 wire was advanced across the lesion. Then, attempt to place the 2.0 x 8 power saver across the lesion was performed. However, it was felt that there was adequate flow and no further intervention needed to be performed. Then, the stent delivery system was removed. A pigtail catheter was placed into the left ventricle. Hemodynamics followed by left ventriculography was performed. Then, a pullback gradient was performed and the catheter was removed. Then, the right femoral artery was visualized and using angiography and then an Angio-Seal was applied. The patient was transferred back to his room in good condition.FINDINGS1. Hemodynamics: The opening aortic pressure was 116/61 with a mean of 64. The opening left ventricular pressure was 112 with end-diastolic pressure of 23. LV pressure on pullback was 106 with end-diastolic pressure of 21. Aortic pressure was 111/67 with a mean of 87. The closing pressure was 110/67.2. Left ventriculography: The left ventricle was of normal cavity, size, and wall thickness. There is a mild anterolateral hypokinesis and moderate inferior and inferoapical hypokinesis. The overall systolic function appeared to be mildly reduced with ejection fraction between 40% and 45%. The mitral valve had no significant prolapse or regurgitation. The aortic valve appeared to be trileaflet and moved normally.3. Coronary angiography: The left main is a normal-caliber vessel. This bifurcates into the left anterior descending and circumflex arteries. The left main is free of any significant obstructive coronary artery disease. The left anterior descending is a large vessel that extends to the apex. It gives off approximately 10 septal perforators and 5 diagonal branches. The first diagonal branch was large. The left anterior descending had mild irregularities, but no high-grade disease. The left circumflex is a nondominant vessel, which gives rise to two obtuse marginal branches. The two obtuse marginal branches are large. There is a relatively small left atrial branch. The left circumflex had a 50% stenosis after the first obtuse marginal branch. The rest of the vessel is moderately irregular, but no high-grade disease. The right coronary artery appears to be a dominant vessel, which gives rise to three right ventricular branches, four posterior lateral branches, two right atrial branches, and two small conus branches. The right coronary artery had moderate disease in its proximal segment with multiple areas of plaquing but no high-grade disease. However, distal between the second and third posterolateral branch, there is a 90% stenosis. The rest of the vessels had mild irregularities, but no high-grade disease. Then percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty of the right coronary artery resulted in a 20% residual stenosis. Then, after stent placement there was 0% residual stenosis; however, there was partial occlusion of the third posterolateral branch. Then, a wire was advanced through this and there was improvement of flow. There is improvement from TIMI grade 2 to TIMI grade 3 flow.CLINICAL IMPRESSION1. Successful percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and stent placement of the right coronary artery.2. Two-vessel coronary artery disease.3. Elevated left ventricular end-diastolic pressure.4. Mild anterolateral and moderate inferoapical hypokinesis.RECOMMENDATIONS1. Integrilin.2. Bed rest.3. Risk factor modification.4. Thallium scintigraphy in approximately six weeks."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES1. Acute coronary artery syndrome with ST segment elevation in anterior wall distribution.2. Documented coronary artery disease with previous angioplasty and stent in the left anterior descending artery and circumflex artery, last procedure in 2005.3. Primary malignant ventricular arrhythmia and necessitated ventricular fibrillation. He is intubated and ventilated.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES: Acute coronary artery syndrome with ST segment elevation in anterior wall distribution. Primary ventricular arrhythmia. Occluded left anterior descending artery, successfully re-canalized with angioplasty and implantation of the drug-eluting stent. Previously stented circumflex with mild stenosis and previously documented occlusion of the right coronary artery, well collateralized.PROCEDURES: Left heart catheterization, selective bilateral coronary angiography and left ventriculography. Revascularization of the left anterior descending with angioplasty and implantation of a drug-eluting stent. Right heart catheterization and Swan-Ganz catheter placement for monitoring.DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: The patient arrived from the emergency room intubated and ventilated. He is hemodynamically stable on heparin and Integrilin bolus and infusion was initiated. The right femoral area was prepped and draped in usual sterile fashion. Lidocaine 2 mL was then filled locally. The right femoral artery was cannulated with an 18-guage needle followed by a 6-French vascular sheath. A guiding catheter XB 3.5 was advanced in manipulated to cannulate the left coronary artery and angiography was obtained. A confirmed occlusion of the left anterior descending artery with minimal collaterals and also occlusion of the right coronary artery, which is well collateralized. An angioplasty wire with present wire was advanced into the left anterior descending artery, and could cross the area of occlusion within the stent. An angioplasty balloon measuring 2.0 x 15 was advanced and three inflations were obtained. It successfully re-canalized the artery. There is evidence of residual stenosis within the distal aspect of the previous stents. A drug-eluting stent Xience 2.75 x 15 was advanced and positioned within the area of stenosis with its distal marker adjacent to bifurcation with a diagonal branch and was deployed at 12 and 18 atmospheres. The intermittent result was improved. An additional inflation was obtained more proximally. His blood pressure fluctuated and dropped in the 70s, correlating with additional sedation. There is patency of the left anterior descending artery and good antegrade flow. The guiding catheter was replaced with a 5-French Judkins right catheter manipulated to cannulate the right coronary artery and selective angiography was obtained. The catheter was then advanced into the left ventricle and pressure measurement was obtained including pullback across the aortic valve. The right femoral vein was cannulated with an 18-guage needle followed by an 8-French vascular sheath. A 8-French Swan-Ganz catheter was then advanced under fluoroscopic and hemodynamic control and pressure stenting was obtained from the right ventricle, pulmonary artery, and pulmonary capillary wedge position. Cardiac catheter was determined by thermal dilution. The procedure was then concluded, well tolerated and without complications. The vascular sheath was in secured in place and the patient return to the coronary care unit for further monitoring. Fluoroscopy time was 8.2 minutes. Total amount of contrast was 113 mL.HEMODYNAMICS: The patient remained in sinus rhythm with intermittent ventricular bigeminy post revascularization. His initial blood pressure was 96/70 with a mean of 83 and the left ventricular pressure was 17 mmHg. There was no gradient across the aortic valve. Closing pressure was 97/68 with a mean of 82.Right heart catheterization with right atrial pressure at 13, right ventricle 31/9, pulmonary artery 33/19 with a mean of 25, and capillary wedge pressure of 19. Cardiac output was 5.87 by thermal dilution.CORONARIES: On fluoroscopy, there was evidence of previous coronary stent in the left anterior descending artery and circumflex distribution.A. Left main coronary: The left main coronary artery is of good caliber and has no evidence of obstructive lesions.B. Left anterior descending artery: The left anterior descending artery was initially occluded within the previously stented proximal-to-mid segment. There is minimal collateral flow.C. Circumflex: Circumflex is a nondominant circulation. It supplies a first obtuse marginal branch on good caliber. There is an outline of the stent in the midportion, which has mild 30% stenosis. The rest of the vessel has no significant obstructive lesions. It also supplies significant collaterals supplying the occluded right coronary artery.D. Right coronary artery: The right coronary artery is a weekly dominant circulation. The vessel is occluded in intermittent portion and has a minimal collateral flow distally.ANGIOPLASTY: The left anterior descending artery was the site of re-canalization by angioplasty and implantation of a drug-eluting stent (Xience 15 mm length deployed at 2.9 mm) final result is good with patency of the left anterior descending artery, good antegrade flow and no evidence of dissection. The stent was deployed proximal to the bifurcation with a second diagonal branch, which has remained patent. There is a septal branch overlapped by the stent, which is also patent, although presenting a proximal stenosis. The distal left anterior descending artery trifurcates with two diagonal branches and apical left anterior descending artery. There is good antegrade flow and no evidence of distal embolization.CONCLUSION: Acute coronary artery syndrome with ST-segment elevation in anterior wall distribution, complicated with primary ventricular malignant arrhythmia and required defibrillation along intubation and ventilatory support.Previously documented coronary artery disease with remote angioplasty and stents in the left anterior descending artery and circumflex artery.Acute coronary artery syndrome with ST-segment elevation in anterior wall distribution related to in-stent thrombosis of the left anterior descending artery, successfully re-canalized with angioplasty and a drug-eluting stent. There is mild-to-moderate disease of the previously stented circumflex and clinic occlusion of the right coronary artery, well collateralized.Right femoral arterial and venous vascular access.RECOMMENDATION: Integrilin infusion is maintained until tomorrow. He received aspirin and Plavix per nasogastric tube. Titrated doses of beta-blockers and ACE inhibitors are initiated. Additional revascularization therapy will be adjusted according to the clinical evaluation."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES1. Dyspnea on exertion with abnormal stress echocardiography.2. Frequent PVCs.3. Metabolic syndrome.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES1. A 50% distal left main and two-vessel coronary artery disease with normal left ventricular systolic function.2. Frequent PVCs.3. Metabolic syndrome.PROCEDURES1. Left heart catheterization with left ventriculography.2. Selective coronary angiography.COMPLICATIONS: None.DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: After informed consent was obtained, the patient was brought to the Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory in fasting state. Both groins were prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion. Xylocaine 1% was used as local anesthetic. Versed and fentanyl were used for conscious sedation. Next, a #6-French sheath was placed in the right femoral artery using modified Seldinger technique. Next, selective angiography of the left coronary artery was performed in multiple views using #6-French JL4 catheter. Next, selective angiography of the right coronary artery was performed in multiple views using #6-French 3DRC catheter. Next, a #6-French angle pigtail catheter was advanced into the left ventricle. The left ventricular pressure was then recorded. Left ventriculography was the performed using 36 mL of contrast injected over 3 seconds. The left heart pull back was then performed. The catheter was then removed.Angiography of the right femoral artery was performed. Hemostasis was obtained by Angio-Seal closure device. The patient left the Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory in stable condition.HEMODYNAMICS1. LV pressure was 163/0 with end-diastolic pressure of 17. There was no significant gradient across the aortic valve.2. Left ventriculography showed old inferior wall hypokinesis. Global left ventricular systolic function is normal. Estimated ejection fraction was 58%. There is no significant mitral regurgitation.3. Significant coronary artery disease.4. The left main is approximately 7 or 8 mm proximally. It trifurcates into left anterior descending artery, ramus intermedius artery, and left circumflex artery. The distal portion of the left main has an ulcerated excentric plaque, up to about 50% in severity.5. The left anterior descending artery is around 4 mm proximally. It extends slightly beyond the apex into the inferior wall. It gives rises to several medium size diagonal branches as well as small to medium size multiple septal perforators. At the ostium of the left anterior descending artery, there was an eccentric plaque up to 70% to 80%, best seen in the shallow LAO with caudal angulation.There was no other flow-limiting disease noted in the rest of the left anterior descending artery or its major branches.The ramus intermedius artery is around 3 mm proximally, but shortly after its origin, it bifurcates into two medium size branches. There was no significant disease noted in the ramus intermedius artery however.The left circumflex artery is around 2.5 mm proximally. It gave off a recurrent atrial branch and a small AV groove branch prior to terminating into a bifurcating medium size obtuse marginal branch. The mid to distal circumflex has a moderate disease, which is relatively diffuse up to about 40% to 50%.The right coronary artery is around 4 mm in diameter. It gives off conus branch, two medium size acute marginal branches, relatively large posterior descending artery and a posterior lateral branch. In the mid portion of the right coronary artery at the origin of the first acute marginal branch, there is a relatively discrete stenosis of about 80% to 90%. Proximally, there is an area of eccentric plaque, but seem to be non-flow limiting, at best around 20% to 30%. Additionally, there is what appears to be like a shell-like lesion in the proximal segment of the right coronary artery as well. The posterior descending artery has an eccentric plaque of about 40% to 50% in its mid segment.PLAN: Plan to consult cardiovascular surgery for consideration of coronary artery bypass surgery. Continue risk factor modification, aspirin, and beta blocker."
"PROCEDURE: Left heart catheterization, coronary angiography, left ventriculography.COMPLICATIONS: None.PROCEDURE DETAIL: The right femoral area was draped and prepped in the usual fashion after Xylocaine infiltration. A 6-French arterial sheath was placed in the usual fashion. Left and right coronary angiograms were then performed in various projections after heparin was given 2000 units intraaortic. The right coronary artery was difficult to cannulate because of its high anterior takeoff. This was nondominant. Several catheters were used. Ultimately, an AL1 diagnostic catheter was used. A pigtail catheter was advanced across the aortic valve. Left ventriculogram was then done in the RAO view using 30 mL of contrast. Pullback gradient was obtained across the aortic valve. Femoral angiogram was performed through the sheath which was above the bifurcation, was removed with a Perclose device with good results. There were no complications. He tolerated this procedure well and returned to his room in good condition.FINDINGS1. Right coronary artery: This has an unusual high anterior takeoff. The vessel is nondominant, has diffuse mild-to-moderate disease.2. Left main trunk: A 30% to 40% distal narrowing is present.3. Left anterior descending: Just at the ostium of the vessel and up to and including the bifurcation of the first large diagonal branch, there is 80 to 90% narrowing. The diagonal is a large vessel about 3 mm in size.4. Circumflex: Dominant vessel, 50% narrowing at the origin of the obtuse marginal. After this, there is 40% narrowing in the AV trunk. The small posterior lateral branch has diffuse mild disease and then the vessel gives rise to a fairly large posterior ventricular branch, which has 70% ostial narrowing, and then after this the posterior descending has 80% narrowing at its origin.5. Left ventriculogram: Normal volume in diastole and systole. Normal systolic function is present. There is no mitral insufficiency or left ventricular outflow obstruction.DIAGNOSES1. Severe complex left anterior descending and distal circumflex disease with borderline, probably moderate narrowing of a large obtuse marginal branch. Dominant circumflex system. Severe disease of the posterior descending. Mild left main trunk disease.2. Normal left ventricular systolic function.Given the complex anatomy of the predominant problem which is the left anterior descending; given its ostial stenosis and involvement of the bifurcation of the diagonal, would recommend coronary bypass surgery. The patient also has severe disease of the circumflex which is dominant. This anatomy is not appropriate for percutaneous intervention. The case will be reviewed with a cardiac surgeon."
"PROCEDURES1. Left heart catheterization.2. Coronary angiography.3. Left ventriculogram.PREPROCEDURE DIAGNOSIS: Atypical chest pain.POSTPROCEDURE DIAGNOSES1. No angiographic evidence of coronary artery disease.2. Normal left ventricular systolic function.3. Normal left ventricular end diastolic pressure.INDICATION: The patient is a 58-year-old male with past medical history significant for polysubstance abuse, chronic tobacco abuse, chronic alcohol dependence with withdrawal, atrial flutter, history of ventricular tachycardia with AICD placement, and hepatitis C. The patient was admitted for atypical chest pain and scheduled for cardiac catheterization.PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: After informed consent was signed by the patient, the patient was taken to the cardiac catheterization laboratory. He was prepped and draped in the usual sterile manner. The right inguinal area was anesthetized with 2% Xylocaine. A 4-French sheath was inserted into the right femoral artery using the modified Seldinger technique. JL4 and 3DRC catheters were used to cannulate the left and right coronary arteries respectively. Coronary angiographies were performed. These catheters were removed and exchanged for a 4-French pigtail catheter, which was positioned into the left ventricle. Left ventriculography was performed. The patient tolerated the procedure well. At the end of the procedure, all catheters and sheaths were removed. The patient was then transferred to telemetry in a stable condition.HEMODYNAMIC DATA: Hemodynamic data shows aortic pressures of 100/56 with mean of 70 mmHg and the LV 100/0 with LVEDP of 10 mmHg.AORTIC VALVE: There is no significant gradient across this valve noted.LV GRAM: A 10 mL of contrast were delivered for 3 seconds for a total of 30 mL. Ejection fraction was calculated to be 69%. There were no wall motion abnormalities noted.ANGIOGRAMLEFT MAIN CORONARY ARTERY: Left main coronary artery is a moderate-caliber vessel free of disease and trifurcates.LAD: LAD is a long, tortuous vessel which wraps around the apex. The LAD is small in caliber. In addition, there is a long bifurcating small-caliber diagonal branch noted. LAD and its branches are free of disease.RAMUS INTERMEDIUS: Ramus intermedius is a long small-caliber vessel free of disease.LCX: LCX is a nondominant small-caliber vessel with long bifurcating small-caliber distal OM branch. LCX and its branches are free of disease.RCA: RCA is a dominant small-caliber vessel with long small-caliber PDA branch. RCA and its branches are free of disease.IMPRESSION1. No angiographic evidence of coronary artery disease.2. Normal left ventricular systolic function.3. Normal left ventricular end diastolic pressure.RECOMMENDATION: Recommend to look for alternative causes of chest pain."
"PROCEDURE: Left heart catheterization, left ventriculography, selective coronary angiography.INDICATION: This lady with a previous left internal mammary graft to left anterior descending, saphenous vein graft to obtuse margin branch, saphenous vein graft to the diagonal branch, and saphenous vein graft to the right coronary artery presented with recurrent difficulties with breathing. This was felt to be related largely to chronic obstructive lung disease. She had dynamic T-wave changes in precordial leads. Cardiac enzymes were indeterminate. She was evaluated by Dr. X and given her previous history and multiple risk factors it was elected to proceed with cardiac catheterization and coronary angiography.Risks of the procedure including risks of conscious sedation, death, cerebrovascular accident, dye reaction, need for emergency surgery, vascular access injury and/or infection, and risks of cath-based interventions were discussed in detail. The patient understood and agreed to proceed.DESCRIPTION OF THE PROCEDURE: The patient was brought to the cardiac catheterization laboratory. Under Versed and fentanyl sedation, the right groin was sterilely prepped and draped. Local anesthesia was obtained with 2% Xylocaine. The right femoral artery was entered using modified Seldinger technique and a 4-French introducer sheath placed in that vessel. Through the indwelling femoral arterial sheath, a JL4 4-French catheter was advanced over the wire to the ascending aorta, appropriately aspirated and flushed. Ascending aortic root pressures obtained. This catheter was utilized in an attempt to cannulate the left coronary ostium. This catheter was too small, was exchanged for a JL5 4-French catheter, which was advanced over the wire to the ascending aorta, the cath appropriately aspirated and flushed, and advanced to left coronary ostium and multiple views of left coronary artery obtained.This catheter was then exchanged for a 4-French right coronary catheter, which was advanced over the wire to the ascending aorta. The catheter appropriately aspirated and flushed. The catheter was advanced in the right coronary artery. Multiple views of that vessel were obtained. The catheter was then sequentially advanced to the saphenous vein graft to the diagonal branch, saphenous vein graft to the obtuse marginal branch, and left internal mammary artery, left anterior descending coronary artery, and multiple views of those vessels were obtained. This catheter was then exchanged for a 4-French pigtail catheter, which was advanced over the wire to the ascending aorta. The catheter was appropriately aspirated and flushed and advanced to left ventricle, baseline left ventricular pressures obtained.Following this, left ventriculography was performed in a 30-degree RAO projection using 30 mL of contrast injected over 3 seconds. Post left ventriculography pressures were then obtained as was a pullback pressure across the aortic valve. Videotapes were then reviewed. It was elected to terminate the procedure at that point in time.The vascular sheath was removed and manual compression carried out. Excellent hemostasis was obtained. The patient tolerated the procedure without complication.RESULTS OF PROCEDURE1. HEMODYNAMICS: Left ventricular end-diastolic filling pressure was 24. There was no gradient across the aortic valve.2. LEFT VENTRICULOGRAPHY: Left ventriculography demonstrated well-preserved left ventricular systolic function. Mild inferobasilar hypokinesis was noted. No significant mitral regurgitation noted. Ejection fraction was estimated at 60%.3. CORONARY ARTERIOGRAPHYA. LEFT MAIN CORONARY: The left main coronary was patent.B. LEFT ANTERIOR DESCENDING CORONARY ARTERY: Left anterior descending coronary was occluded shortly after a very small first septal perforator was given.C. CIRCUMFLEX CORONARY ARTERY: Circumflex coronary artery was occluded at its origin.D. RIGHT CORONARY ARTERY. Right coronary artery was occluded in its mid portion.4. SAPHENOUS VEIN GRAFT ANGIOGRAPHYA. SAPHENOUS VEIN GRAFT TO THE DIAGONAL BRANCH: The saphenous vein graft to diagonal branch was widely patent at its origin and insertion sites. Excellent flow was noted in the diagonal system with some retrograde flow.B. There was retrograde flow as well in the left anterior descending system.C. SAPHENOUS VEIN GRAFT TO THE OBTUSE MARGINAL SYSTEM: Saphenous vein graft to the obtuse marginal system was widely patent at its origin and insertion sites. There was no graft disease noted. Excellent flow was noted in the bifurcating marginal system.D. SAPHENOUS VEIN GRAFT TO RIGHT CORONARY ARTERY: Saphenous vein graft to right coronary was widely patent with no graft disease. Origin and insertion sites were free of disease. Distal flow in the graft to the posterior descending was normal.5. LEFT INTERNAL MAMMARY ARTERY ANGIOGRAPHY: Left internal mammary artery angiography demonstrated a widely patent left internal mammary at its origin and insertion sites. There was no focal disease noted, inserted into the mid-to-distal LAD which was a small-caliber vessel. Retrograde filling of a small septal system was noted.SUMMARY OF RESULTS1. Elevated left ventricular end-diastolic filling pressure with normal left ventricular systolic function and mild hypokinesis of inferobasilar segment.2. Occluded native right coronary, left anterior descending, and circumflex coronary arteries.3. Widely patent saphenous vein graft to the right coronary artery, obtuse marginal system, diagonal system.4. Widely patent left internal mammary artery and left anterior descending.RECOMMENDATIONS: The patient needs no additional cardiovascular evaluation or workup. Her full-dose Lovenox should be discontinued and low-dose Lovenox for DVT prophylaxis should be carried out. The usual medications for risk control and medicines for diabetic control will be appropriate."
"PROCEDURE PERFORMED1. Placement of a subclavian single-lumen tunneled Hickman central venous catheter.2. Surgeon-interpreted fluoroscopy.OPERATION IN DETAIL: After obtaining informed consent from the patient, including a thorough explanation of the risks and benefits of the aforementioned procedure, the patient was taken to the operating room and anesthesia was administered. Next, a #18-gauge needle was used to locate the subclavian vein. After aspiration of venous blood, a J wire was inserted through the needle using Seldinger technique. The needle was withdrawn. The distal tip location of the J wire was confirmed to be in adequate position with surgeon-interpreted fluoroscopy. Next, a separate stab incision was made approximately 3 fingerbreadths below the wire exit site. A subcutaneous tunnel was created, and the distal tip of the Hickman catheter was pulled through the tunnel to the level of the cuff. The catheter was cut to the appropriate length. A dilator and sheath were passed over the J wire. The dilator and J wire were removed, and the distal tip of the Hickman catheter was threaded through the sheath, which was simultaneously withdrawn. The catheter was flushed and aspirated without difficulty. The distal tip was confirmed to be in good location with surgeon-interpreted fluoroscopy. A 2-0 nylon was used to secure the cuff down to the catheter at the skin level. The skin stab site was closed with a 4-0 Monocryl. The instrument and sponge count was correct at the end of the case. The patient tolerated the procedure well and was transferred to the postanesthesia recovery area in good condition."
"REASON FOR THE VISIT: Very high PT/INR.HISTORY: The patient is an 81-year-old lady whom I met last month when she came in with pneumonia and CHF. She was noticed to be in atrial fibrillation, which is a chronic problem for her. She did not want to have Coumadin started because she said that she has had it before and the INR has had been very difficult to regulate to the point that it was dangerous, but I convinced her to restart the Coumadin again. I gave her the Coumadin as an outpatient and then the INR was found to be 12. So, I told her to come to the emergency room to get vitamin K to reverse the anticoagulation.PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:1. Congestive heart failure.2. Renal insufficiency.3. Coronary artery disease.4. Atrial fibrillation.5. COPD.6. Recent pneumonia.7. Bladder cancer.8. History of ruptured colon.9. Myocardial infarction.10. Hernia repair.11. Colon resection.12. Carpal tunnel repair.13. Knee surgery.MEDICATIONS:1. Coumadin.2. Simvastatin.3. Nitrofurantoin.4. Celebrex.5. Digoxin.6. Levothyroxine.7. Vicodin.8. Triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide.9. Carvedilol.SOCIAL HISTORY: She does not smoke and she does not drink.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:GENERAL: Lady in no distress.VITAL SIGNS: Blood pressure 100/46, pulse of 75, respirations 12, and temperature 98.2.HEENT: Head is normal.NECK: Supple.LUNGS: Clear to auscultation and percussion.HEART: No S3, no S4, and no murmurs.ABDOMEN: Soft.EXTREMITIES: Lower extremities, no edema.ASSESSMENT:1. Atrial fibrillation.2. Coagulopathy, induced by Coumadin.PLAN: Her INR at the office was 12. I will repeat it, and if it is still elevated, I will give vitamin K 10 mg in 100 mL of D5W and then send her home and repeat the PT/INR next week. I believe at this time that it is too risky to use Coumadin in her case because of her age and comorbidities, the multiple medications that she takes and it is very difficult to keep an adequate level of anticoagulation that is safe for her. She is prone to a fall and this would be a big problem. We will use one aspirin a day instead of the anticoagulation. She is aware of the risk of stroke, but she is very scared of the anticoagulation with Coumadin and does not want to use the Coumadin at this time and I understand. We will see her as an outpatient."
"INTERPRETATION:1. Predominant rhythm is normal sinus rhythm.2. No supraventricular arrhythmia.3. Frequent premature ventricular contractions.4. Trigemini and couplets.5. No high-grade atrial ventricular block was noted.6. Diary was not kept.IMPRESSION: Frequent premature atrial contractions, couplets, and trigemini."
"INDICATIONS: Predominant rhythm is sinus. Heart rate varied between 56-128 beats per minute, average heart rate of 75 beats per minute. Minimum heart rate of 50 beats per minute.640 ventricular ectopic isolated beats noted. Rare isolated APCs and supraventricular couplets.One supraventricular triplet reported.Triplet maximum rate of 178 beats per minute noted."
"INDICATION: Syncope.HOLTER MONITOR SUMMARY ANALYSIS: Analyzed for approximately 23 hours 57 minutes and artefact noted for approximately 23 seconds. Total beats of 108,489, heart rate minimum of approximately 54 beats per minutes at 7 a.m. and maximum of 106 beats per minute at approximately 4 p.m. Average heart rate is approximately 75 beats per minute, total of 31 to bradycardia, longest being 225 beats at approximately 7 in the morning, minimum rate of 43 beats per minute at approximately 01:40 a.m. Total ventricular events of 64, primarily premature ventricular contraction and supraventricular events total beats of 9 atrial premature contractions. No significant ST elevation noted and ST depression noted only in one channel for approximately three minutes for a maximum of 2.7 mm.IMPRESSION OF THE FINDINGS: Predominant sinus rhythm with occasional premature ventricular contraction, occasional atrial premature contractions and Mobitz type 1 Wenckebach, several episodes, Mobitz type II, 3 to 2 AV conduction disease noted as well approximately two episodes and one episode of atrial bigeminy noted. No significant pauses noted."
"INDICATION: Bradycardia and dizziness.COMMENTS:1. The patient was monitored for 24 hours.2. The predominant rhythm was normal sinus rhythm with a minimum heart rate of 56 beats per minute and the maximum heart rate of 114 beats per minute and a mean heart rate of 86 beats per minute.3. There were occasional premature atrial contractions seen, no supraventricular tachycardia was seen.4. There was a frequent premature ventricular contraction seen. Between 11:00 a.m. and 11:15 a.m. the patient was in ventricular bigemini and trigemini most of the time. During rest of the monitoring period, there were just occasional premature ventricular contractions seen. No ventricular tachycardia was seen.5. There were no pathological pauses noted.6. The longest RR interval was 1.1 second.7. There were no symptoms reported."
"HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is an 84-year-old woman with a history of hypertension, severe tricuspid regurgitation with mild pulmonary hypertension, mild aortic stenosis, and previously moderate mitral regurgitation although not seen recently and I was asked to perform cardiology consultation for her because there was concern for atrial fibrillation after a fall. Basically the patient states that yesterday she fell and she is not certain about the circumstances, on her driveway, and on her left side hit a rock. When she came to the emergency room, she was found to have a rapid atrial tachyarrhythmia, and was put on Cardizem with reportedly heart rate in the 50s, so that was stopped. Review of EKGs from that time shows what appears to be multifocal atrial tachycardia with followup EKG showing wandering atrial pacemaker. An ECG this morning showing normal sinus rhythm with frequent APCs. Her potassium at that time was 3.1. She does recall having palpitations because of the pain after the fall, but she states she is not having them since and has not had them prior. She denies any chest pain nor shortness of breath prior to or since the fall. She states clearly she can walk and she would be able to climb 2 flights of stairs without problems.PAST CARDIAC HISTORY: She is followed by Dr. X in our office and has a history of severe tricuspid regurgitation with mild elevation and PA pressure. On 05/12/08, preserved left and right ventricular systolic function, aortic sclerosis with apparent mild aortic stenosis, and bi-atrial enlargement. She has previously had a Persantine Myoview nuclear rest-stress test scan completed at ABCD Medical Center in 07/06 that was negative. She has had significant mitral valve regurgitation in the past being moderate, but on the most recent echocardiogram on 05/12/08, that was not felt to be significant. She has a history of hypertension and EKGs in our office show normal sinus rhythm with frequent APCs versus wandering atrial pacemaker. She does have a history of significant hypertension in the past. She has had dizzy spells and denies clearly any true syncope. She has had bradycardia in the past from beta-blocker therapy.MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:1. Multivitamin p.o. daily.2. Aspirin 325 mg once a day.3. Lisinopril 40 mg once a day.4. Felodipine 10 mg once a day.5. Klor-Con 20 mEq p.o. b.i.d.6. Omeprazole 20 mg p.o. daily presumably for GERD.7. MiraLax 17 g p.o. daily.8. Lasix 20 mg p.o. daily.ALLERGIES: PENICILLIN. IT IS LISTED THAT TOPROL HAS CAUSED SHORTNESS OF BREATH IN HER OFFICE CHART AND I BELIEVE SHE HAS HAD SIGNIFICANT BRADYCARDIA WITH THAT IN THE PAST.FAMILY HISTORY: She states her brother died of an MI suddenly in his 50s.SOCIAL HISTORY: She does not smoke cigarettes, abuse alcohol, nor use any illicit drugs. She is retired from Morse Chain and delivering newspapers. She is widowed. She lives alone but has family members who live either on her property or adjacent to it.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: She denies a history of stroke, cancer, vomiting of blood, coughing up blood, bright red blood per rectum, bleeding, stomach ulcers. She does not recall renal calculi, nor cholelithiasis, denies asthma, emphysema, pneumonia, tuberculosis, sleep apnea, home oxygen use. She does note occasional peripheral edema. She is not aware of prior history of MI. She denies diabetes. She does have a history of GERD. She notes feeling depressed at times because of living alone. She denies rheumatologic conditions including psoriasis or lupus. Remainder of review of systems is negative times 15 except as described above.PHYSICAL EXAM: Height 5 feet 0 inches, weight 123 pounds, temperature 99.2 degrees Fahrenheit, blood pressure has ranged from 160/87 with pulses recorded at being 144, and currently ranges 101/53 to 147/71, pulse 64, respiratory rate 20, O2 saturation 97%. On general exam, she is a pleasant elderly woman who is hard of hearing, but is alert and interactive. HEENT: Shows cranium is normocephalic and atraumatic. She has moist mucosal membranes. Neck veins were not distended. There are no carotid bruits. Lungs: Clear to auscultation anteriorly without wheezes. She is relatively immobile because of her left hip fracture. Cardiac Exam: S1, S2, regular rate, frequent ectopic beats, 2/6 systolic ejection murmur, preserved aortic component of the second heart sound. There is also a soft holosystolic murmur heard. There is no rub or gallop. PMI is nondisplaced. Abdomen is soft and nondistended. Bowel sounds present. Extremities without significant clubbing, cyanosis, and there is trivial to 1+ peripheral edema. Pulses appear grossly intact. Affect is appropriate. Visible skin warm and perfused. She is not able to move because of left hip fracture easily in bed.DIAGNOSTIC STUDIES/LAB DATA: Pertinent labs include chest x-ray with radiology report pending but shows only a calcified aortic knob. No clear pulmonary vascular congestion. Sodium 140, potassium 3.7, it was 3.1 on admission, chloride 106, bicarbonate 27, BUN 17, creatinine 0.9, glucose 150, magnesium was 2 on 07/13/06. Troponin was 0.03 followed by 0.18. INR is 0.93, white blood cell count 10.2, hematocrit 36, platelet count 115,000.EKGs are reviewed. Initial EKG done on 08/19/08 at 1832 shows MAT, heart rate of 104 beats per minute, no ischemic changes. She had a followup EKG done at 20:37 on 08/19/08, which shows wandering atrial pacemaker and some lateral T-wave changes, not significantly changed from prior. Followup EKG done this morning shows normal sinus rhythm with frequent APCs.IMPRESSION: She is an 84-year-old female with a history of hypertension, severe tricuspid regurgitation with mild pulmonary hypertension and mild aortic stenosis admitted after a fall with left hip fracture and she will require surgery. Telemetry now reviewed, shows predominantly normal sinus rhythm with frequent APCs _____ earlier yesterday evening showed burst of multifocal atrial tachycardia and I suspect that was exacerbated by prior hypokalemia, which has been corrected. There has been no atrial fibrillation documented. I do not feel these troponins are significant given the stress or fall in prior multifocal atrial tachycardia with increased rate especially in the absence of chest pain or shortness of breath. She actually describes feeling good exercise capacity prior to this fall. Given favorable risk to benefit ratio for needed left hip surgery, I feel she may proceed with needed left hip surgery from a cardiac standpoint with continued verapamil, which has been started, which should help control the multifocal atrial tachycardia, which she had and would watch for heart rate with that. Continued optimization of electrolytes. The patient cannot take beta-blockers as previously Toprol reportedly caused shortness of breath, although, there was some report that it caused bradycardia so we would watch her heart rate on the verapamil. The patient is aware of the cardiac risks, certainly it is moderate, and wishes to proceed with needed surgery. I do not feel any further cardiac evaluation is needed at this time and the patient may followup with Dr. X after discharge. Regarding her mild thrombocytopenia, I would defer that to hospitalist and continue proton pump inhibitors for history of gastroesophageal reflux disease, management of left hip fracture as per orthopedist."
"SUBJECTIVE: The patient is a 78-year-old female who returns for recheck. She has hypertension. She denies difficulty with chest pain, palpations, orthopnea, nocturnal dyspnea, or edema.PAST MEDICAL HISTORY / SURGERY / HOSPITALIZATIONS: Reviewed and unchanged from the dictation on 12/03/2003.MEDICATIONS: Atenolol 50 mg daily, Premarin 0.625 mg daily, calcium with vitamin D two to three pills daily, multivitamin daily, aspirin as needed, and TriViFlor 25 mg two pills daily. She also has Elocon cream 0.1% and Synalar cream 0.01% that she uses as needed for rash.ALLERGIES: Benadryl, phenobarbitone, morphine, Lasix, and latex.FAMILY HISTORY / PERSONAL HISTORY: Reviewed. Mother died from congestive heart failure. Father died from myocardial infarction at the age of 56. Family history is positive for ischemic cardiac disease. Brother died from lymphoma. She has one brother living who has had angioplasties x 2. She has one brother with asthma.PERSONAL HISTORY: Negative for use of alcohol or tobacco.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:Bones and Joints: She has had continued difficulty with lower back pain particularly with standing which usually radiates down her right leg. She had been followed by Dr. Mills, but decided to see Dr. XYZ who referred to her Dr Isaac. She underwent several tests. She did have magnetic resonance angiography of the lower extremities and the aorta which were normal. She had nerve conduction study that showed several peripheral polyneuropathy. She reports that she has myelogram last week but has not got results of this. She reports that the rest of her tests have been normal, but it seems that vertebrae shift when she stands and then pinches the nerve. She is now seeing Dr. XYZ who comes to Hutchison from KU Medical Center, and she thinks that she probably will have surgery in the near future.Genitourinary: She has occasional nocturia.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:Vital Signs: Weight: 227.2 pounds. Blood pressure: 144/72. Pulse: 80. Temperature: 97.5 degrees.General Appearance: She is an elderly female patient who is not in acute distress.Mouth: Posterior pharynx is clear.Neck: Without adenopathy or thyromegaly.Chest: Lungs are resonant to percussion. Auscultation reveals normal breath sounds.Heart: Normal S1 and S2 without gallops or rubs.Abdomen: Without masses or tenderness to palpation.Extremities: Without edema.IMPRESSION/PLAN:1. Hypertension. She is advised to continue with the same medication.2. Syncope. She previously had an episode of syncope around Thanksgiving. She has not had a recurrence of this and her prior cardiac studies did not show arrhythmias.3. Spinal stenosis. She still is being evaluated for this and possibly will have surgery in the near future."
"PROBLEMS LIST:1. Nonischemic cardiomyopathy.2. Branch vessel coronary artery disease.3. Congestive heart failure, NYHA Class III.4. History of nonsustained ventricular tachycardia.5. Hypertension.6. Hepatitis C.INTERVAL HISTORY: The patient was recently hospitalized for CHF exacerbation and was discharged with increased medications. However, he did not fill his prescriptions and came back with persistent shortness of breath on exertion and on rest. He has history of orthopnea and PND. He has gained a few pounds of weight but denied to have any palpitation, presyncope, or syncope.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Positive for right upper quadrant pain. He has occasional nausea, but no vomiting. His appetite has decreased. No joint pain, TIA, seizure or syncope. Other review of systems is unremarkable.I reviewed his past medical history, past surgical history, and family history.SOCIAL HISTORY: He has quit smoking, but unfortunately was positive for cocaine during last hospital stay in 01/08.ALLERGIES: He has no known drug allergies.MEDICATIONS: I reviewed his medication list in the chart. He states he is compliant, but he was not taking the revised dose of medications as per discharge orders and prescription.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:VITAL SIGNS: Pulse 91 per minute and regular, blood pressure 151/102 in the right arm and 152/104 in the left arm, weight 172 pounds, which is about 6 pounds more than last visit in 11/07. HEENT: Atraumatic and normocephalic. No pallor, icterus or cyanosis. NECK: Supple. Jugular venous distention 5 cm above the clavicle present. No thyromegaly. LUNGS: Clear to auscultation. No rales or rhonchi. Pulse ox was 98% on room air. CVS: S1 and S2 present. S3 and S4 present. ABDOMEN: Soft and nontender. Liver is palpable 5 cm below the right subcostal margin. EXTREMITIES: No clubbing or cyanosis. A 1+ edema present.ASSESSMENT AND PLAN: The patient has hypertension, nonischemic cardiomyopathy, and branch vessel coronary artery disease. Clinically, he is in NYHA Class III. He has some volume overload and was not unfortunately taking Lasix as prescribed. I have advised him to take Lasix 40 mg p.o. b.i.d. I also increased the dose of hydralazine from 75 mg t.i.d. to 100 mg t.i.d. I advised him to continue to take Toprol and lisinopril. I have also added Aldactone 25 mg p.o. daily for survival advantage. I reinforced the idea of not using cocaine. He states that it was a mistake, may be somebody mixed in his drink, but he has not intentionally taken any cocaine. I encouraged him to find a primary care provider. He will come for a BMP check in one week. I asked him to check his blood pressure and weight. I discussed medication changes and gave him an updated list. I have asked him to see a gastroenterologist for hepatitis C. At this point, his Medicaid is pending. He has no insurance and finds hard to find a primary care provider. I will see him in one month. He will have his fasting lipid profile, AST, and ALT checked in one week."
"CLINICAL HISTORY: Patient is a 37-year-old female with a history of colectomy for adenoma. During her preop evaluation it was noted that she had a lesion on her chest x-ray. CT scan of the chest confirmed a left lower mass.SPECIMEN: Lung, left lower lobe resection.IMMUNOHISTOCHEMICAL STUDIES: Tumor cells show no reactivity with cytokeratin AE1/AE3. No significant reactivity with CAM5.2 and no reactivity with cytokeratin-20 are seen. Tumor cells show partial reactivity with cytokeratin-7. PAS with diastase demonstrates no convincing intracytoplasmic mucin. No neuroendocrine differentiation is demonstrated with synaptophysin and chromogranin stains. Tumor cells show cytoplasmic and nuclear reactivity with S100 antibody. No significant reactivity is demonstrated with melanoma marker HMB-45 or Melan-A. Tumor cell nuclei (spindle cell and pleomorphic/giant cell carcinoma components) show nuclear reactivity with thyroid transcription factor marker (TTF-1). The immunohistochemical studies are consistent with primary lung sarcomatoid carcinoma with pleomorphic/giant cell carcinoma and spindle cell carcinoma components.FINAL DIAGNOSIS:Histologic Tumor Type: Sarcomatoid carcinoma with areas of pleomorphic/giant cell carcinoma and spindle cell carcinoma.Tumor Size: 2.7 x 2.0 x 1.4 cm.Visceral Pleura Involvement: The tumor closely approaches the pleural surface but does not invade the pleura.Vascular Invasion: Present.Margins: Bronchial resection margins and vascular margins are free of tumor.Lymph Nodes: Metastatic sarcomatoid carcinoma into one of four hilar lymph nodes.Pathologic Stage: pT1N1MX."
"HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 68-year-old man who returns for recheck. He has a history of ischemic cardiac disease, he did see Dr. XYZ in February 2004 and had a thallium treadmill test. He did walk for 8 minutes. The scan showed some mild inferior wall scar and ejection fraction was well preserved. He has not had difficulty with chest pain, palpitations, orthopnea, nocturnal dyspnea, or edema.PAST MEDICAL HISTORY/SURGERIES/HOSPITALIZATIONS: He had tonsillectomy at the age of 8. He was hospitalized in 1996 with myocardial infarction and subsequently underwent cardiac catheterization and coronary artery bypass grafting procedure. He did have LIMA to the LAD and had three saphenous vein grafts performed otherwise.MEDICATIONS: Kerlone 10 mg 1/2 pill daily, gemfibrozil 600 mg twice daily, Crestor 80 mg 1/2 pill daily, aspirin 325 mg daily, vitamin E 400 units daily, and Citrucel one daily.ALLERGIES: None known.FAMILY HISTORY: Father died at the age of 84. He had a prior history of cancer of the lung and ischemic cardiac disease. Mother died in her 80s from congestive heart failure. He has two brothers and six sisters living who remain in good health.PERSONAL HISTORY: Quit smoking in 1996. He occasionally drinks alcoholic beverages.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:Endocrine: He has hypercholesterolemia treated with diet and medication. He reports that he did lose 10 pounds this year.Neurologic: Denies any TIA symptoms.Genitourinary: He has occasional nocturia. Denies any difficulty emptying his bladder.Gastrointestinal: He has a history of asymptomatic cholelithiasis.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:Vital Signs: Weight: 225 pounds. Blood pressure: 130/82. Pulse: 83. Temperature: 96.4 degrees.General Appearance: He is a middle-aged man who is not in any acute distress.HEENT: Mouth: The posterior pharynx is clear.Neck: Without adenopathy or thyromegaly.Chest: Lungs are resonant to percussion. Auscultation reveals normal breath sounds.Heart: Normal S1, S2, without gallops or rubs.Abdomen: Without tenderness or masses.Extremities: Without edema.IMPRESSION/PLAN:1. Ischemic cardiac disease. This remains stable. He will continue on the same medication. He reports he has had some laboratory studies today.2. Hypercholesterolemia. He will continue on the same medication.3. Facial tic. We also discussed having difficulty with the facial tic at the left orbital region. This occurs mainly when he is under stress. He has apparently had numerous studies in the past and has seen several doctors in Wichita about this. At one time was being considered for some type of operation. His description, however, suggests that they were considering an operation for tic douloureux. He does not have any pain with this tic and this is mainly a muscle spasm that causes his eye to close. Repeat neurology evaluation was advised. He will be scheduled to see Dr. XYZ in Newton on 09/15/2004.4. Immunization. Addition of pneumococcal vaccination was discussed with him but had been decided by him at the end of the appointment. We will have this discussed with him further when his laboratory results are back."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Syncopal episodes with injury. See electrophysiology consultation.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:1. Normal electrophysiologic studies.2. No inducible arrhythmia.3. Procainamide infusion negative for Brugada syndrome.PROCEDURES:1. Comprehensive electrophysiology studies with attempted arrhythmia induction.2. IV Procainamide infusion for Brugada syndrome.DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: The patient gave informed consent for comprehensive electrophysiologic studies. She received small amounts of intravenous fentanyl and Versed for conscious sedation. Then 1% lidocaine local anesthesia was used. Three catheters were placed via the right femoral vein; 5-French catheters to the right ventricular apex and right atrial appendage; and a 6-French catheter to the His bundle. Later in the procedure, the RV apical catheter was moved to RV outflow tract.ELECTROPHYSIOLOGICAL FINDINGS: Conduction intervals in sinus rhythm were normal. Sinus cycle length 768 ms, PA interval 24 ms, AH interval 150 ms, HV interval 46 ms. Sinus node recovery times were also normal at 1114 ms. Corrected sinus node recovery time was normal at 330 ms. One-to-one AV conduction was present to cycle length 480 ms, AH interval 240 ms, HV interval 54 ms. AV nodal effective refractory period was normal, 440 ms at drive cycle length 600 ms. RA-ERP was 250 ms. With ventricular pacing, there was VA disassociation present.Since there was no evidence for dual AV nodal pathways, and poor retrograde conduction, isoproterenol infusion was not performed to look for SVT.Programmed ventricular stimulation was performed at both right ventricular apex and right ventricular outflow tracts. Drive cycle length 600, 500, and 400 ms was used with triple extrastimuli down to troubling intervals of 180 ms, or refractoriness. There was no inducible VT. Longest run was 5 beats of polymorphic VT, which is a nonspecific finding. From the apex 400-600 with 2 extrastimuli were delivered, again with no inducible VT.Procainamide was then infused, 20 mg/kg over 10 minutes. There were no ST segment changes. HV interval after IV Procainamide remained normal at 50 ms.ASSESSMENT: Normal electrophysiologic studies. No evidence for sinus node dysfunction or atrioventricular block. No inducible supraventricular tachycardia or ventricular tachycardia, and no evidence for Brugada syndrome.PLAN: The patient will follow up with Dr. X. She recently had an ambulatory EEG. I will plan to see her again on a p.r.n. basis should she develop a recurrent syncopal episodes. Reveal event monitor was considered, but not placed since she has only had one single episode."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Left adrenal mass, 5.5 cm.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:1. Left adrenal mass, 5.5 cm.2. Intraabdominal adhesions.PROCEDURE PERFORMED:1. Laparoscopic lysis of adhesions.2. Laparoscopic left adrenalectomy.ANESTHESIA: General.ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: Less than 100 cc.FLUIDS: 3500 cc crystalloids.DRAINS: None.DISPOSITION: The patient was taken to recovery room in stable condition. Sponge, needle, and instrument counts were correct per OR staff.HISTORY: This is a 57-year-old female who was found to have a large left adrenal mass, approximately 5.5 cm in size. She had undergone workup previously with my associate, Dr. X as well as by Endocrinology, and showed this to be a nonfunctioning mass. Due to the size, the patient was advised to undergo an adrenalectomy and she chose the laparoscopic approach due to her multiple pulmonary comorbidities.INTRAOPERATIVE FINDINGS: Showed multiple intraabdominal adhesions in the anterior abdominal wall. The spleen and liver were unremarkable. The gallbladder was surgically absent.There was large amount of omentum and bowel in the pelvis, therefore the gynecological organs were not visualized. There was no evidence of peritoneal studding or masses. The stomach was well decompressed as well as the bladder.PROCEDURE DETAILS: After informed consent was obtained from the patient, she was taken to the operating room and given general anesthesia. She was placed on a bean bag and secured to the table. The table was rotated to the right to allow gravity to aid in our retraction of the bowel.Prep was performed. Sterile drapes were applied. Using the Hassan technique, we placed a primary laparoscopy port approximately 3 cm lateral to the umbilicus on the left. Laparoscopy was performed with ___________. At this point, we had a second trocar, which was 10 mm to 11 mm port. Using the non-cutting trocar in the anterior axillary line and using Harmonic scalpel, we did massive lysis of adhesions from the anterior abdominal wall from the length of the prior abdominal incision, the entire length of the abdominal incision from the xiphoid process to the umbilicus. The adhesions were taken down off the entire anterior abdominal wall.At this point, secondary and tertiary ports were placed. We had one near the midline in the subcostal region and to the left midline and one at the midclavicular line, which were also 10 and 11 ports using a non-cutting blade.At this point, using the Harmonic scalpel, we opened the white line of Toldt on the left and reflected the colon medially, off the anterior aspect of the Gerota's fascia. Blunt and sharp dissection was used to isolate the upper pole of the kidney, taking down some adhesions from the spleen. The colon was further mobilized medially again using gravity to aid in our retraction. After isolating the upper pole of the kidney using blunt and sharp dissection as well as the Harmonic scalpel, we were able to dissect the plane between the upper pole of the kidney and lower aspect of the adrenal gland. We were able to isolate the adrenal vein, dumping into the renal vein, this was doubly clipped and transected. There was also noted to be vascular structure of the upper pole, which was also doubly clipped and transected. Using the Harmonic scalpel, we were able to continue free the remainder of the adrenal glands from its attachments medially, posteriorly, cephalad, and laterally.At this point, using the EndoCatch bag, we removed the adrenal gland through the primary port in the periumbilical region and sent the flap for analysis. Repeat laparoscopy showed no additional findings. The bowel was unremarkable, no evidence of bowel injury, no evidence of any bleeding from the operative site.The operative site was irrigated copiously with saline and reinspected and again there was no evidence of bleeding. The abdominal cavity was desufflated and was reinspected. There was no evidence of bleeding.At this point, the camera was switched to one of the subcostal ports and the primary port in the periumbilical region was closed under direct vision using #0 Vicryl suture. At this point, each of the other ports were removed and then with palpation of each of these ports, this indicated that the non-cutting ports did close and there was no evidence of fascial defects.At this point, the procedure was terminated. The abdominal cavity was desufflated as stated. The patient was sent to Recovery in stable condition. Postoperative orders were written. The procedure was discussed with the patient's family at length."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSISSubglottic upper tracheal stenosis.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSISSubglottic upper tracheal stenosis.OPERATION PREFORMEDDirect laryngoscopy, rigid bronchoscopy and dilation of subglottic upper tracheal stenosis.INDICATIONS FOR THE SURGERYThe patient is a 76-year-old white female with a history of subglottic upper tracheal stenosis. She has had undergone multiple previous endoscopic procedures in the past; last procedure was in January 2007. She returns with some increasing shortness of breath and dyspnea on exertion. Endoscopic reevaluation is offered to her. The patient has been considering laryngotracheal reconstruction; however, due to a recent death in the family, she has postponed this, but she has been having increasing symptoms. An endoscopic treatment was offered to her. Nature of the proposed procedure including risks and complications involving bleeding, infection, alteration of voice, speech, or swallowing, hoarseness changing permanently, recurrence of stenosis despite a surgical intervention, airway obstruction necessitating a tracheostomy now or in the future, cardiorespiratory, and anesthetic risks were all discussed in length. The patient states she understood and wished to proceed.DESCRIPTION OF THE OPERATIONThe patient was taken to the operating room, placed on table in supine position. Following adequate general anesthesia, the patient was prepared for endoscopy. The top sliding laryngoscope was then inserted in the oral cavity, pharynx, and larynx examined. In the oral cavity, she had good dentition. Tongue and buccal cavity mucosa were without ulcers, masses, or lesions. The oropharynx was clear. The larynx was then manually suspended. Epiglottis area, epiglottic folds, false cords, true vocal folds with some mild edema, but otherwise, without ulcers, masses, or lesions, and the supraglottic and glottic airway were widely patent. The larynx was manually suspended and a 5 x 30 pediatric rigid bronchoscope was passed through the vocal folds. At the base of the subglottis, there was a narrowing and in the upper trachea, restenosis had occurred. Moderate amount of mucoid secretions, these were suctioned, following which the area of stenosis was dilated. Remainder of the bronchi was then examined. The mid and distal trachea were widely patent. Pale pink mucosa takeoff from mainstem bronchi were widely patent without ulcers, lesions, or evidence of scarring. The scope was pulled back and removed and following this, a 6 x 30 pediatric rigid bronchoscope was passed through the larynx and further dilatation carried out. Once this had been completed, dramatic improvement in the subglottic upper tracheal airway accomplished. Instrumentation was removed and a #6 endotracheal tube, uncuffed, was placed to allow smooth emerge from anesthesia. The patient tolerated the procedure well without complication."
"EXAM: Lexiscan Nuclear Myocardial Perfusion Scan.INDICATION: Chest pain.TYPE OF TEST: Lexiscan, unable to walk on a treadmill.INTERPRETATION: Resting heart rate of 96, blood pressure of 141/76. EKG, normal sinus rhythm, nonspecific ST-T changes, left bundle branch block. Post Lexiscan 0.4 mg injected intravenously by standard protocol. Peak heart rate was 105, blood pressure of 135/72. EKG remains the same. No symptoms are noted.SUMMARY:1. Nondiagnostic Lexiscan.2. Nuclear interpretation as below.NUCLEAR MYOCARDIAL PERFUSION SCAN WITH STANDARD PROTOCOL: Resting and stress images were obtained with 10.4, 32.5 mCi of tetrofosmin injected intravenously by standard protocol. Myocardial perfusion scan demonstrates homogeneous and uniform distribution of the tracer uptake. There is no evidence of reversible or fixed defect. Gated SPECT revealed mild global hypokinesis, more pronounced in the septal wall possibly secondary to prior surgery. Ejection fraction calculated at 41%. End-diastolic volume of 115, end-systolic volume of 68.IMPRESSION:1. Normal nuclear myocardial perfusion scan.2. Ejection fraction 41% by gated SPECT."
"REASON FOR CONSULTATION: Lightheaded, dizziness, and palpitation.HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 50-year-old female who came to the Emergency Room. This morning, the patient experienced symptoms of lightheaded, dizziness, felt like passing out; however, there was no actual syncope. During the episode, the patient describes symptoms of palpitation and fluttering of chest. She relates the heart was racing. By the time when she came into the Emergency Room, her EKG revealed normal sinus rhythm. No evidence of arrhythmia. The patient had some cardiac workup in the past, results are as mentioned below. Denies any specific chest pain. Activities fairly stable. She is actively employed. No other cardiac risk factor in terms of alcohol consumption or recreational drug use, caffeinated drink use or over-the-counter medication usage.CORONARY RISK FACTORS: No history of hypertension or diabetes mellitus. Nonsmoker. Cholesterol normal. No history of established coronary artery disease and family history noncontributory.FAMILY HISTORY: Nonsignificant.SURGICAL HISTORY: Tubal ligation.MEDICATIONS: On pain medications, ibuprofen.ALLERGIES: SULFA.PERSONAL HISTORY: She is a nonsmoker. Does not consume alcohol. No history of recreational drug use.PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: History of chest pain in the past. Had workup done including nuclear myocardial perfusion scan, which was reportedly abnormal. Subsequently, the patient underwent cardiac catheterization in 11/07, which was also normal. An echocardiogram at that time was also normal. At this time, presentation with lightheaded, dizziness, and palpitation.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:CONSTITUTIONAL: No history of fever, rigors, or chills.HEENT: No history of cataract, blurry vision, or glaucoma.CARDIOVASCULAR: As above.RESPIRATORY: Shortness of breath. No pneumonia or valley fever.GASTROINTESTINAL: No epigastric discomfort, hematemesis or melena.UROLOGICAL: No frequency or urgency.MUSCULOSKELETAL: Nonsignificant.NEUROLOGICAL: No TIA. No CVA. No seizure disorder.ENDOCRINE/HEMATOLOGIC: Nonsignificant.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:VITAL SIGNS: Pulse of 69, blood pressure 127/75, afebrile, and respiratory rate 16 per minute.HEENT: Atraumatic and normocephalic.NECK: Neck veins flat. No carotid bruits. No thyromegaly. No lympyhadenopathy.LUNGS: Air entry bilaterally fair.HEART: PMI normal. S1 and S2 regular.ABDOMEN: Soft and nontender. Bowel sounds present.EXTREMITIES: No edema. Pulses palpable. No clubbing or cyanosis.CNS: Benign.PSYCHOLOGICAL: Normal.MUSCULOSKELETAL: Nonsignificant.EKG: Normal sinus rhythm, incomplete right bundle-branch block.LABORATORY DATA: H&H stable. BUN and creatinine within normal limits. Cardiac enzyme profile negative. Chest x-ray unremarkable.IMPRESSION:1. Lightheaded, dizziness in a 50-year-old female. No documented arrhythmia with the symptoms of palpitation.2. Normal cardiac structure by echocardiogram a year and half ago.3. Normal cardiac catheterization in 11/07.4. Negative workup so far for acute cardiac event in terms of EKG, cardiac enzyme profile.RECOMMENDATIONS:1. From cardiac standpoint, observation, no other investigation at this juncture.2. The patient was started on low dose of beta-blocker and see how she fares. Fortunately, no arrhythmia documented. If there is no documentation of arrhythmia, we will do observation. The patient was started empirically on beta-blocker and workup on outpatient basis explained to her. As mentioned above, she does not have any cardiac risk factors."
"HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 65-year-old female who underwent left upper lobectomy for stage IA non-small cell lung cancer. She returns for a routine surveillance visit.She has undergone since her last visit an abdominopelvic CT, which shows an enlarging simple cyst of the left kidney. She underwent barium swallow, which demonstrates a small sliding hiatal hernia with minimal reflux. She has a minimal delayed emptying secondary tertiary contractions. PA and lateral chest x-ray from the 11/23/09 was also reviewed, which demonstrates no lesions or infiltrates. Review of systems, the patient continues to have periodic odynophagia and mid thoracic dysphagia. This most likely is secondary to tertiary contractions with some delayed emptying. She has also had increased size of the left calf without tenderness, which has not resolved over the past several months. She has had a previous DVT in 1975 and 1985. She denies weight loss, anorexia, fevers, chills, headaches, new aches or pains, cough, hemoptysis, shortness of breath at rest, or dyspnea on exertion.MEDICATIONS: Aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d., Spiriva 10 mcg q.d., and albuterol p.r.n.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: BP: 117/78. RR: 18. P: 93.WT: 186 lbs. RAS: 100%.HEENT: Mucous membranes are moist. No cervical or supraclavicular lymphadenopathy.LUNGS: Clear to auscultation bilaterally.CARDIAC: Regular rate and rhythm without murmurs.EXTREMITIES: No cyanosis, clubbing or edema.NEURO: Alert and oriented x3. Cranial nerves II through XII intact.ASSESSMENT: The patient has no evidence of disease now status post left upper lobectomy for stage IA non-small cell lung cancer 13 months ago.PLAN: She is to return to clinic in six months with a chest CT. She was given a prescription for an ultrasound of the left lower extremity to rule out DVT. She will be called with the results. She was given a prescription for nifedipine 10 mg p.o. t.i.d. p.r.n. esophageal spasm."
"OPERATION: Left lower lobectomy.OPERATIVE PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: The patient was brought to the operating room and placed in the supine position. After general endotracheal anesthesia was induced, the appropriate monitoring devices were placed. The patient was placed in the right lateral decubitus position. The left chest and back were prepped and draped in a sterile fashion. A right lateral thoracotomy incision was made. Subcutaneous flaps were raised. The anterior border of the latissimus dorsi was freed up, and the muscle was retracted posteriorly. The posterior border of the pectoralis was freed up and it was retracted anteriorly. The 5th intercostal space was entered.The inferior pulmonary ligament was then taken down with electrocautery. The major fissure was then taken down and arteries identified. The artery was dissected free and it was divided with an Endo GIA stapler. The vein was then dissected free and divided with an Endo GIA stapler. The bronchus was then cleaned of all nodal tissue. A TA-30 green loaded stapler was then placed across this, fired, and main bronchus divided distal to the stapler.Then the lobe was removed and sent to pathology where margins were found to be free of tumor. Level 9, level 13, level 11, and level 6 nodes were taken for permanent cell specimen. Hemostasis noted. Posterior 28-French and anterior 24-French chest tubes were placed.The wounds were closed with #2 Vicryl. A subcutaneous drain was placed. Subcutaneous tissue was closed with running 3-0 Dexon, skin with running 4-0 Dexon subcuticular stitch."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Right middle lobe lung cancer.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Right middle lobe lung cancer.PROCEDURES PERFORMED:1. VATS right middle lobectomy.2. Fiberoptic bronchoscopy thus before and after the procedure.3. Mediastinal lymph node sampling including levels 4R and 7.4. Tube thoracostomy x2 including a 19-French Blake and a 32-French chest tube.5. Multiple chest wall biopsies and excision of margin on anterior chest wall adjacent to adherent tumor.ANESTHESIA: General endotracheal anesthesia with double-lumen endotracheal tube.DISPOSITION OF SPECIMENS: To pathology both for frozen and permanent analysis.FINDINGS: The right middle lobe tumor was adherent to the anterior chest wall. The adhesion was taken down, and the entire pleural surface along the edge of the adhesion was sent for pathologic analysis. The final frozen pathology on this entire area returned as negative for tumor. Additional chest wall abnormalities were biopsied and sent for pathologic analysis, and these all returned separately as negative for tumor and only fibrotic tissue. Several other biopsies were taken and sent for permanent analysis of the chest wall. All of the biopsy sites were additionally marked with Hemoclips. The right middle lobe lesion was accompanied with distal pneumonitis and otherwise no direct involvement of the right upper lobe or right lower lobe.ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: Less than 100 mL.CONDITION OF THE PATIENT AFTER SURGERY: Stable.HISTORY OF PROCEDURE: This patient is well known to our service. He was admitted the night before surgery and given hemodialysis and had close blood sugar monitoring in control. The patient was subsequently taken to the operating room on April 4, 2007, was given general anesthesia and was endotracheally intubated without incident. Although, he had markedly difficult airway, the patient had fiberoptic bronchoscopy performed all the way down to the level of the subsegmental bronchi. No abnormalities were noted in the entire tracheobronchial tree, and based on this, the decision was made to proceed with the surgery. The patient was kept in the supine position, and the single-lumen endotracheal tube was removed and a double-lumen tube was placed. Following this, the patient was placed into the left lateral decubitus position with the right side up and all pressure points were padded. Sterile DuraPrep preparation on the right chest was placed. A sterile drape around that was also placed. The table was flexed to open up the intercostal spaces. A second bronchoscopy was performed to confirm placement of the double-lumen endotracheal tube. Marcaine was infused into all incision areas prior to making an incision. The incisions for the VATS right middle lobectomy included a small 1-cm incision for the auscultatory incision approximately 4 cm inferior to the inferior tip of the scapula. The camera port was in the posterior axillary line in the eighth intercostal space through which a 5-mm 30-degree scope was used. Third incision was an anterior port, which was approximately 2 cm inferior to the inframammary crease and the midclavicular line in the anterior sixth intercostal space, and the third incision was a utility port, which was a 4 cm long incision, which was approximately one rib space below the superior pulmonary vein. All of these incisions were eventually created during the procedure. The initial incision was the camera port through which, under direct visualization, an additional small 5-mm port was created just inferior to the anterior port. These two ports were used to identify the chest wall lesions, which were initially thought to be metastatic lesions. Multiple biopsies of the chest wall lesions were taken, and the decision was made to also insert the auscultatory incision port. Through these three incisions, the initial working of the diagnostic portion of the chest wall lesion was performed. Multiple biopsies were taken of the entire chest wall offers and specimens came back as negative. The right middle lobe was noted to be adherent to the anterior chest wall. This area was taken down and the entire pleural surface along this area was taken down and sent for frozen pathologic analysis. This also returned as negative with only fibrotic tissue and a few lymphocytes within the fibrotic tissue, but no tumor cells. Based on this, the decision was made to not proceed with chest wall resection and continue with right middle lobectomy. Following this, the anterior port was increased in size and the utility port was made and meticulous dissection from an anterior to posterior direction was performed. The middle lobe branch of the right superior pulmonary vein was initially dissected and stapled with vascular load 45-mm EndoGIA stapler. Following division of the right superior pulmonary vein, the right middle lobe bronchus was easily identified. Initially, this was thought to be the main right middle lobe bronchus, but in fact it was the medial branch of the right middle lobe bronchus. This was encircled and divided with a blue load stapler with a 45-mm EndoGIA. Following division of this, the pulmonary artery was easily identified. Two branches of the pulmonary artery were noted to be going into the right middle lobe. These were individually divided with a vascular load after encircling with a right angle clamp. The vascular staple load completely divided these arterial branches successfully from the main pulmonary artery trunk, and following this, an additional branch of the bronchus was noted to be going to the right middle lobe. A fiberoptic bronchoscopy was performed intraoperatively and confirmed that this was in fact the lateral branch of the right middle lobe bronchus. This was divided with a blue load stapler 45 mm EndoGIA. Following division of this, the minor and major fissures were completed along the edges of the right middle lobe separating the right upper lobe from the right middle lobe as well as the right middle lobe from the right lower lobe. Following complete division of the fissure, the lobe was put into an EndoGIA bag and taken out through the utility port. Following removal of the right middle lobe, a meticulous lymph node dissection sampling was performed excising the lymph node package in the 4R area as well as the 7 lymph node package. Node station 8 or 9 nodes were easily identified, therefore none were taken. The patient was allowed to ventilate under water on the right lung with no obvious air leaking noted. A 19-French Blake was placed into the posterior apical position and a 32-French chest tube was placed in the anteroapical position. Following this, the patient's lung was allowed to reexpand fully, and the patient was checked for air leaking once again. Following this, all the ports were closed with 2-0 Vicryl suture used for the deeper tissue, and 3-0 Vicryl suture was used to reapproximate the subcutaneous tissue and 4-0 Monocryl suture was used to close the skin in a running subcuticular fashion. The patient tolerated the procedure well, was extubated in the operating room and taken to the recovery room in stable condition."
"OPERATION1. Right upper lung lobectomy.2. Mediastinal lymph node dissection.ANESTHESIA1. General endotracheal anesthesia with dual-lumen tube.2. Thoracic epidural.OPERATIVE PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: After obtaining informed consent from the patient, including a thorough explanation of the risks and benefits of the aforementioned procedure, the patient was taken to the operating room, and general endotracheal anesthesia was administered with a dual-lumen tube. Next, the patient was placed in the left lateral decubitus position, and his right chest was prepped and draped in the standard surgical fashion. We used a #10-blade scalpel to make an incision in the skin approximately 1 fingerbreadth below the angle of the scapula. Dissection was carried down in a muscle-sparing fashion using Bovie electrocautery. The 5th rib was counted, and the 6th interspace was entered. The lung was deflated. We identified the major fissure. We then began by freeing up the inferior pulmonary ligament, which was done with Bovie electrocautery. Next, we used Bovie electrocautery to dissect the pleura off the lung. The pulmonary artery branches to the right upper lobe of the lung were identified. Of note was the fact that there was a visible, approximately 4 x 4-cm mass in the right upper lobe of the lung without any other metastatic disease palpable. As mentioned, a combination of Bovie electrocautery and sharp dissection was used to identify the pulmonary artery branches to the right upper lobe of the lung. Next, we began by ligating the pulmonary artery branches of the right upper lobe of the lung. This was done with suture ligature in combination with clips. After taking the pulmonary artery branches of the right upper lobe of the lung, we used a combination of blunt dissection and sharp dissection with Metzenbaum scissors to separate out the pulmonary vein branch of the right upper lobe of the lung. This likewise was ligated with a 0 silk. It was stick-tied with a 2-0 silk. It was then divided. Next we dissected out the bronchial branch to the right upper lobe of the lung. A curved Glover was placed around the bronchus. Next a TA-30 stapler was fired across the bronchus. The bronchus was divided with a #10-blade scalpel. The specimen was handed off. We next performed a mediastinal lymph node dissection. Clips were applied to the base of the feeding vessels to the lymph nodes. We inspected for any signs of bleeding. There was minimal bleeding. We placed a #32-French anterior chest tube, and a #32-French posterior chest tube. The rib space was closed with #2 Vicryl in an interrupted figure-of-eight fashion. A flat Jackson-Pratt drain, #10 in size, was placed in the subcutaneous flap. The muscle layer was closed with a combination of 2-0 Vicryl followed by 2-0 Vicryl, followed by 4-0 Monocryl in a running subcuticular fashion. Sterile dressing was applied. The instrument and sponge count was correct at the end of the case. The patient tolerated the procedure well and was transferred to the PACU in good condition."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Right lower lobe mass, possible cancer.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Non-small cell carcinoma of the right lower lobe.PROCEDURES:1. Right thoracotomy.2. Extensive lysis of adhesions.3. Right lower lobectomy.4. Mediastinal lymphadenectomy.ANESTHESIA: General.DESCRIPTION OF THE PROCEDURE: The patient was taken to the operating room and placed on the operating table in the supine position. After an adequate general anesthesia was given, she was placed in the left lateral decubitus and the right chest was prepped and draped in the sterile fashion. Lateral thoracotomy was performed on the right side anterior to the tip of the scapula, and this was carried down through the subcutaneous tissue. The latissimus dorsi muscle was partially transected and then the serratus was reflected anteriorly. The chest was entered through the fifth intercostal space. A retractor was placed and then extensive number of adhesions between the lung and the pleura were lysed carefully with sharp and blunt dissection. The right lower lobe was identified. There was a large mass in the superior segment of the lobe, which was very close to the right upper lobe, and because of the adhesions, it could not be told if the tumor was extending into the right upper lobe, but it appeared that it did not. Dissection was then performed at the lower lobe of the fissure, and a GIA stapler was placed through here to separate the tumor from the upper lobe including a small segment of the upper lobe with the lower lobe. Then, dissection of the hilum was performed, and the branches of the pulmonary artery to the lower lobe were ligated with #2-0 silk freehand ties proximally and distally and #3-0 silk transfixion stitches and then transected. The inferior pulmonary vein was dissected after dividing the ligament, and it was stapled proximally and distally with a TA30 stapler and then transected. Further dissection of the fissure allowed for its completion with a GIA stapler and then the bronchus was identified and dissected. The bronchus was stapled with a TA30 bronchial stapler and then transected, and the specimen was removed and sent to the Pathology Department for frozen section diagnosis. The frozen section diagnosis was that of non-small cell carcinoma, bronchial margins free and pleural margins free. The mediastinum was then explored. No nodes were identified around the pulmonary ligament or around the esophagus. Subcarinal nodes were dissected, and hemostasis was obtained with clips. The space below and above the osseous was opened, and the station R4 nodes were dissected. Hemostasis was obtained with clips and with electrocautery. All nodal tissue were sent to Pathology as permanent specimen. Following this, the chest was thoroughly irrigated and aspirated. Careful hemostasis was obtained and a couple of air leaks were controlled with #6-0 Prolene sutures. Then, two #28 French chest tubes were placed in the chest, one posteriorly and one anteriorly, and secured to the skin with #2-0 nylon stitches. The incision was then closed with interrupted #2-0 Vicryl pericostal stitches. A running #1 PDS on the muscle layer, a running 2-0 PDS in the subcutaneous tissue, and staples on the skin. A sterile dressing was applied, and the patient was then awakened and transferred to the following Intensive Care Unit in stable and satisfactory condition.ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: 100 mL.TRANSFUSIONS: None.COMPLICATIONS: None.CONDITION: Condition of the patient on arrival to the intensive care unit was satisfactory."
"RIGHT LOWER EXTREMITY: The arterial system was visualized showing triphasic waveform from the common femoral to popliteal and biphasic waveform at the posterior tibial artery with ankle brachial index of 0/8.LEFT LOWER EXTREMITY: The arterial system was visualized with triphasic waveform from the common femoral to the popliteal artery, with biphasic waveform at the posterior tibial artery. Ankle brachial index of 0.9.IMPRESSION: Mild bilateral lower extremity arterial obstructive disease."
"LEFT LOWER EXTREMITY VENOUS DOPPLER ULTRASOUNDREASON FOR EXAM: Status post delivery five weeks ago presenting with left calf pain.INTERPRETATIONS: There was normal flow, compression and augmentation within the right common femoral, superficial femoral and popliteal veins. Lymph nodes within the left inguinal region measure up to 1 cm in short-axis.IMPRESSION: Lymph nodes within the left inguinal region measure up to 1 cm in short-axis, otherwise no evidence for left lower extremity venous thrombosis."
"CLINICAL HISTORY: Probable right upper lobe lung adenocarcinoma.SPECIMEN: Lung, right upper lobe resection.GROSS DESCRIPTION: Specimen is received fresh for frozen section, labeled with the patient's identification and \"\"Right upper lobe lung\"\". It consists of one lobectomy specimen measuring 16.1 x 10.6 x4.5.cm. The specimen is covered by a smooth, pink-tan and gray pleural surface which is largely unremarkable. Sectioning reveals a round, ill-defined, firm, tan-gray mucoid mass. This mass measures 3.6 x 3.3 x 2.7 cm and is located 3.7 cm from the closest surgical margin and 3.9 cm from the hilum. There is no necrosis or hemorrhage evident. The tumor grossly appears to abut, but not invade through, the visceral pleura, and the overlying pleura is puckered.FINAL DIAGNOSIS: Right lung, upper lobe, lobectomy: Bronchioloalveolar carcinoma, mucinous typeCOMMENT: Right upper lobe, lobectomy.Tumor type: Bronchioloalveolar carcinoma, mucinous type.Histologic grade: Well differentiated.Tumor size (greatest diameter): 3.6 cm.Blood/lymphatic vessel invasion: Absent.Perineural invasion: Absent.Bronchial margin: Negative.Vascular margin: Negative.Inked surgical margin: Negative.Visceral pleura: Not involved.In situ carcinoma: Absent.Non-neoplastic lung: Emphysema.Hilar lymph nodes: Number of positive lymph nodes: 0; Total number of lymph nodes: 1.P53 immunohistochemical stain is negative in the tumor."
"CHART NOTE: She is here to discuss possible open lung biopsy that she has actually scheduled for tomorrow. Dr. XYZ had seen her because of her complaints of shortness of breath. Then she had the pulmonary function test and CT scan and he felt that she probably had usual interstitial pneumonitis, but wanted her to have an open lung biopsy so he had her see Dr. XYZ Estep. He had concurred with Dr. XYZ that an open lung biopsy was appropriate and she was actually scheduled for this but both Dr. XYZ and I were unavailable before the procedure was originally scheduled so he had it delayed so that she could talk with us prior to having the biopsy. She was ready to go ahead with this and felt that it was important she find out why she is short of breath. She is very concerned about the findings on her CAT scan and pulmonary function test. She seemed alarmed to report that Dr. XYZ had found that her lung capacity was reduced to 60% of what should be normal. However, I told her that two years ago Dr. XYZ did pulmonary function studies which showed the same change in function. And that really her pulmonary function test, at least compared from two years ago, had not really changed over this period of time. After discussing the serious nature of an open lung biopsy, the fact that her pulmonary function studies have not changed in two years, the fact that she likely has a number of other things that are contributing to her being out of breath, which is deconditioning and obesity, she seemed comfortable with the thought of simply monitoring this a little bit longer before undergoing something as risky as an open lung biopsy. In fact when I called Dr. XYZ to talk to him about cancelling the procedure, he stated he would be very uncomfortable with doing an open lung biopsy on someone with pulmonary function studies which had not changed. I also explained to patient that I did not think Dr. XYZ was aware that she had had pulmonary function studies two years previously and certainly did not know that there results of those. And also I spoke with Dr. XYZ who agreed that although the two different tests may have some minor differences accounting for some of the similarity in results that may or may not be completely accurate, that generally a person with progressive interstitial lung disease without a fairly substantial change on pulmonary function tests even if they were done at different facilities.I had a 30-minute discussion with patient about all of this and showed her the different test results and had a lengthy talk with her about the open lung biopsy and she ultimately felt very uncomfortable with going ahead and decided to cancel it. I also told her we could continue to monitor her breathing problems and continue to monitor her CAT scan, x-ray, and pulmonary function tests. And if there was some sign that this was a progressive problem, she could still go ahead with the lung biopsy. But she needed to understand that the treatment and likely diagnosis found from an open lung biopsy were not highly likely to be of any great help to her. She understands that the diagnoses made from open lung biopsy are not all that specific and that the treatment for the few specific things that can be detected are not often well tolerated or extremely helpful.We are going to see her back in a month to see how her breathing is doing. We will cancel her open lung biopsy for tomorrow and decide whether she should follow up with a pulmonologist at that time. I told her I would try to talk to her sister sometime in the next day or two."
"CLINICAL HISTORY: A 48-year-old smoker found to have a right upper lobe mass on chest x-ray and is being evaluated for chest pain. PET scan demonstrated a mass in the right upper lobe and also a mass in the right lower lobe, which were also identified by CT scan. The lower lobe mass was approximately 1 cm in diameter and the upper lobe mass was 4 cm to 5 cm in diameter. The patient was referred for surgical treatment.SPECIMEN:A. Lung, wedge biopsy right lower lobeB. Lung, resection right upper lobeC. Lymph node, biopsy level 2 and 4D. Lymph node, biopsy level 7 subcarinalFINAL DIAGNOSIS:A. Wedge biopsy of right lower lobe showing: Adenocarcinoma, Grade 2, Measuring 1 cm in diameter with invasion of the overlying pleura and with free resection margin.B. Right upper lobe lung resection showing: Adenocarcinoma, grade 2, measuring 4 cm in diameter with invasion of the overlying pleura and with free bronchial margin. Two (2) hilar lymph nodes with no metastatic tumor.C. Lymph node biopsy at level 2 and 4 showing seven (7) lymph nodes with anthracosis and no metastatic tumor.D. Lymph node biopsy, level 7 subcarinal showing (5) lymph nodes with anthracosis and no metastatic tumor.COMMENT: The morphology of the tumor seen in both lobes is similar and we feel that the smaller tumor involving the right lower lobe is most likely secondary to transbronchial spread from the main tumor involving the right upper lobe. This suggestion is supported by the fact that no obvious vascular or lymphatic invasion is demonstrated and adjacent to the smaller tumor, there is isolated nests of tumor cells within the air spaces. Furthermore, immunoperoxidase stain for Ck-7, CK-20 and TTF are performed on both the right lower and right upper lobe nodule. The immunohistochemical results confirm the lung origin of both tumors and we feel that the tumor involving the right lower lobe is due to transbronchial spread from the larger tumor nodule involving the right upper lobe."
"GROSS DESCRIPTION:A. Received fresh labeled with patient's name, designated 'right upper lobe wedge', is an8.0 x 3.5 x 3.0 cm wedge of lung which has an 11.5 cm staple line. There is a 0.8 x0.7 x 0.5 cm sessile tumor with surrounding pleural puckering.B. Received fresh, labeled with patient's name, designated \"\"lymph node', is a 1.7 cm possible lymph node with anthracotic pigment.C. Received fresh labeled with patient's name, designated 'right upper lobe', is a 16.0 x14.5 x 6.0 cm lobe of lung. The lung is inflated with formalin. There is a 12.0 cm staple line on the lateral surface, inked blue. There is a 1.3 x 1.1 x 0.8 cm subpleural firm ill-defined mass, 2.2 cm from the bronchial margin and 1.5 cm from the previously described staple line. The overlying pleura is puckered.D. Received fresh, labeled with patient's name, designated '4 lymph nodes', is a 2.0 x 2.0 x 2.0 cm aggregate of lymphoid material with anthracotic pigment and adipose tissue.E. Received fresh, labeled with patient's name, designated 'subcarinal lymph node', is a2.0 x 1.7 x 0.8 cm aggregate of lymphoid material with anthracotic pigment .FINAL DIAGNOSIS:A. Right upper lobe wedge lung biopsy: Poorly differentiated non-small cell carcinoma. Tumor Size: 0.8 cm. Arterial (large vessel) invasion: Not seen. Small vessel (lymphatic) invasion: Not seen. Pleural invasion: Not identified. Margins of excision: Negative for malignancy.B. Biopsy, 10R lymph node: Anthracotically pigmented lymphoid tissue, negative for malignancy.C. Right upper lobe, lung: Moderately differentiated non-small cell carcinoma(adenocarcinoma). Tumor Size: 1.3 cm. Arterial (large vessel) invasion: Present. Small vessel (lymphatic) invasion: Not seen. Pleural invasion: Not identified. Margins of excision: Negative for malignancy.D. Biopsy, 4R lymph nodes: Lymphoid tissue, negative for malignancy.E. Biopsy, subcarinal lymph node: Lymphoid tissue, negative for malignancy.COMMENTS: Pathologic examination reveals two separate tumors in the right upper lobe. They appear histologically distinct, suggesting they are separate primary tumors (pT1). The right upper lobe wedge biopsy (part A) shows a poorly differentiated non-small cell carcinoma with a solid growth pattern and without definite glandular differentiation by light microscopy. The right upper lobe carcinoma identified in the resection (part C) is a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma with obvious gland formation."
"REASON FOR CONSULT: I was asked to see this patient with metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer, on hospice with inferior ST-elevation MI.HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient from prior strokes has expressive aphasia, is not able to express herself in a clear meaningful fashion. Her daughter who accompanies her is very attentive whom I had met previously during drainage of a malignant hemorrhagic pericardial effusion last month. The patient has been feeling well for the last several weeks, per the daughter, but today per the personal aide, became agitated and uncomfortable at about 2:30 p.m. At about 7 p.m., the patient began vomiting, was noted to be short of breath by her daughter with garbled speech, arms flopping, and irregular head movements. Her daughter called 911 and her symptoms seemed to improve. Then, she began vomiting. When the patient's daughter asked her if she had chest pain, the patient said yes.She came to the emergency room, an EKG showed inferior ST-elevation MI. I was called immediately and knowing her history, especially, her hospice status with recent hemorrhagic pericardial effusion, I felt thrombolytic was contraindicated and she would not be a candidate for aggressive interventional therapy with PCI/CABG. She was begun after discussion with the oncologist, on heparin drip and has received morphine, nitro, and beta-blocker, and currently states that she is pain free. Repeat EKG shows normalization of her ST elevation in the inferior leads as well as normalization of prior reciprocal changes.PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer. In early-to-mid December, she had an admission and was found to have a malignant pericardial effusion with tamponade requiring urgent drainage. We did repeat an echo several weeks later and that did not show any recurrence of the pericardial effusion. She is on hospice from the medical history, atrial fibrillation, hypertension, history of multiple CVA.MEDICATIONS: Medications as an outpatient:1. Amiodarone 200 mg once a day.2. Roxanol concentrate 5 mg three hours p.r.n. pain.ALLERGIES: CODEINE. NO SHRIMP, SEAFOOD, OR DYE ALLERGY.FAMILY HISTORY: Negative for cardiac disease.SOCIAL HISTORY: She does not smoke cigarettes. She uses alcohol. No use of illicit drugs. She is divorced and lives with her daughter. She is a retired medical librarian from Florida.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Unable to be obtained due to the patient's aphasia.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Height 5 feet 3, weight of 106 pounds, temperature 97.1 degrees, blood pressure ranges from 138/82 to 111/87, pulse 61, respiratory rate 22. O2 saturation 100%. On general exam, she is an elderly woman with now marked aphasia, which per her daughter waxes and wanes, was more pronounced and she nods her head up and down when she says the word, no, and conversely, she nods her head side-to-side when she uses the word yes with some discordance in her head gestures with vocalization. HEENT shows the cranium is normocephalic and atraumatic. She has dry mucosal membrane. She now has a right facial droop, which per her daughter is new. Neck veins are not distended. No carotid bruits visible. Skin: Warm, well perfused. Lungs are clear to auscultation anteriorly. No wheezes. Cardiac exam: S1, S2, regular rate. No significant murmurs. PMI is nondisplaced. Abdomen: Soft, nondistended. Extremities: Without edema, on limited exam. Neurological exam seems to show only the right facial droop.DIAGNOSTIC/LABORATORY DATA: EKGs as reviewed above. Her last ECG shows normalization of prior ST elevation in the inferior leads with Q waves and first-degree AV block, PR interval 280 milliseconds. Further lab shows sodium 135, potassium 4.2, chloride 98, bicarbonate 26, BUN 9, creatinine 0.8, glucose 162, troponin 0.17, INR 1.27, white blood cell count 1.3, hematocrit 31, platelet count of 179.Chest x-ray, no significant pericardial effusion.IMPRESSION: The patient is a 69-year-old woman with metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer with a recent hemorrhagic pericardial effusion, now admitted with cerebrovascular accident and transient inferior myocardial infarction, which appears to be canalized. I will discuss this in detail with the patient and her daughter, and clearly, her situation is quite guarded with likely poor prognosis, which they are understanding of.RECOMMENDATIONS:1. I think it is reasonable to continue heparin, but clearly she would be at risk for hemorrhagic pericardial effusion recurrence.2. Morphine is appropriate, especially for preload reduction and other comfort measures as appropriate.3. Would avoid other blood thinners including Plavix, Integrilin, and certainly, she is not a candidate for a thrombolytic with which the patient and her daughter are in agreement with after a long discussion.Other management as per the medical service. I have discussed the case with Dr. X of the hospitalist service who will be admitting the patient."
"CHIEF COMPLAINT: Newly diagnosed high-risk acute lymphoblastic leukemia; extensive deep vein thrombosis, right iliac vein and inferior vena cava (IVC), status post balloon angioplasty, and mechanical and pharmacologic thrombolysis following placement of a vena caval filter.HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient was transferred here the evening of 02/23/2007 from Hospital with a new diagnosis of high-risk acute lymphoblastic leukemia based on confirmation by flow cytometry of peripheral blood lymphoblasts that afternoon. History related to this illness probably dates back to October of 2006 when he had onset of swelling and discomfort in the left testicle with what he described as a residual \"\"lump\"\" posteriorly. The left testicle has continued to be painful off and on since. In early November, he developed pain in the posterior part of his upper right leg, which he initially thought was related to skateboarding and muscle strain. Physical therapy was prescribed and the discomfort temporarily improved. In December, he noted onset of increasing fatigue. He used to work out regularly, lifting lifts, doing abdominal exercises, and playing basketball and found he did not have energy to pursue these activities. He has lost 10 pounds since December and feels his appetite has decreased. Night sweats and cough began in December, for which he was treated with a course of Augmentin. However, both of these problems have continued. He also began taking Accutane for persistent acne in December (this agent was stopped on 02/19/2007). Despite increasing fatigue and lethargy, he continues his studies at University of Denver, has a biology major (he aspires to be an ophthalmologist).The morning of 02/19/2007, he awakened with severe right inguinal and right lower quadrant pain. He was seen in Emergency Room where it was noted that he had an elevated WBC of 18,000. CT scan of the abdomen was obtained to rule out possible appendicitis and on that CT, a large clot in the inferior vena cava extending to the right iliac and femoral veins was found. He promptly underwent appropriate treatment in interventional radiology with the above-noted angioplasty and placement of a vena caval filter followed by mechanical and pharmacologic thrombolysis. Repeat ultrasound there on 02/20/2007 showed no evidence of deep venous thrombosis (DVT). Continuous intravenous unfractionated heparin infusion was continued. Because there was no obvious cause of this extensive thrombosis, occult malignancy was suspected. Appropriate blood studies were obtained and he underwent a PET/CT scan as part of his diagnostic evaluation. This study showed moderately increased diffuse bone marrow metabolic activity. Because the WBC continued to rise and showed a preponderance of lymphocytes, the smear was reviewed by pathologist, Sheryl Asplund, M.D., and flow cytometry was performed on the peripheral blood. These studies became available the afternoon of 02/23/2007, and confirmed the diagnosis of precursor-B acute lymphoblastic leukemia. The patient was transferred here after stopping of the continuous infusion heparin and receiving a dose of Lovenox 60 mg subcutaneously for further diagnostic evaluation and management of the acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL).ALLERGIES: NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES. HE DOES SEEM TO REACT TO CERTAIN ADHESIVES.CURRENT MEDICATIONS: 1. Lovenox 60 mg subcutaneously q.12h. initiated.2. Coumadin 5 mg p.o., was administered on 02/19/2007 and 02/22/2007.3. Protonix 40 mg intravenous (IV) daily.4. Vicodin p.r.n.5. Levaquin 750 mg IV on 02/23/2007.IMMUNIZATIONS: Up-to-date.PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: The treatment of the thrombosis as noted above on 02/19/2007 and 02/20/2007.FAMILY HISTORY: Two half-brothers, ages 26 and 28, both in good health. Parents are in good health. A maternal great-grandmother had a deep venous thrombosis (DVT) of leg in her 40s. A maternal great-uncle developed leukemia around age 50. A maternal great-grandfather had bone cancer around age 80. His paternal grandfather died of colon cancer at age 73, which he had had since age 68. Adult-onset diabetes is present in distant relatives on both sides.SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient is a student at the University majoring in biology. He lives in a dorm there. His parents live in Breckenridge. He admits to having smoked marijuana off and on with friends and drinking beer off and on as well.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: He has had emesis off and on related to Vicodin and constipation since 02/19/2007, also related to pain medication. He has had acne for about two years, which he describes as mild to moderate. He denied shortness of breath, chest pain, hemoptysis, dyspnea, headaches, joint pains, rashes, except where he has had dressings applied, and extremity pain except for the right leg pain noted above.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: GENERAL: Alert, cooperative, moderately ill-appearing young man.VITAL SIGNS: At the time of admission, pulse was 94, respirations 20, blood pressure 120/62, temperature 98.7, height 171.5 cm, weight 63.04 kg, and pulse oximetry on room air 95%.HAIR AND SKIN: Mild facial acne.HEENT: Extraocular muscles (EOMs) intact. Pupils equal, round, and reactive to light and accommodation (PERRLA), fundi normal.CARDIOVASCULAR: A 2/6 systolic ejection murmur (SEM), regular sinus rhythm (RSR).LUNGS: Clear to auscultation with an occasional productive cough.ABDOMEN: Soft with mild lower quadrant tenderness, right more so than left; liver and spleen each decreased 4 cm below their respective costal margins.MUSCULOSKELETAL: Mild swelling of the dorsal aspect of the right foot and distal right leg. Mild tenderness over the prior catheter entrance site in the right popliteal fossa and mild tenderness over the right medial upper thigh.GENITOURINARY: Testicle exam disclosed no firm swelling with mild nondiscrete fullness in the posterior left testicle.NEUROLOGIC: Exam showed him to be oriented x4. Normal fundi, intact cranial nerves II through XII with downgoing toes, symmetric muscle strength, and decreased patellar deep tendon reflexes (DTRs).LABORATORY DATA: White count 25,500 (26 neutrophils, 1 band, 7 lymphocytes, 1 monocyte, 1 myelocyte, 64 blasts), hemoglobin 13.3, hematocrit 38.8, and 312,000 platelets. Electrolytes, BUN, creatinine, phosphorus, uric acid, AST, ALT, alkaline phosphatase, and magnesium were all normal. LDH was elevated to 1925 units/L (upper normal 670), and total protein and albumin were both low at 6.2 and 3.4 g/dL respectively. Calcium was also slightly low at 8.8 mg/dL. Low molecular weight heparin test was low at 0.27 units/mL. PT was 11.8, INR 1.2, and fibrinogen 374. Urinalysis was normal.ASSESSMENT: 1. Newly diagnosed high-risk acute lymphoblastic leukemia.2. Deep vein thrombosis of the distal iliac and common femoral/right femoral and iliac veins, status post vena caval filter placement and mechanical and thrombolytic therapy, on continued anticoagulation.3. Probable chronic left epididymitis.PLAN: 1. Proceed with diagnostic bone marrow aspirate/biopsy and lumbar puncture (using a #27-gauge pencil-tip needle for minimal trauma) as soon as these procedures can be safely done with regard to the anticoagulation status.2. Prompt reassessment of the status of the deep venous thrombosis with Doppler studies.3. Ultrasound/Doppler of the testicles.4. Maintain therapeutic anticoagulation as soon as the diagnostic procedures for ALL can be completed."
"PROCEDURE DONE: Resting Myoview and adenosine Myoview SPECT.INDICATIONS: Chest pain.PROCEDURE: 13.3 mCi of Tc-99m tetrofosmin was injected and resting Myoview SPECT was obtained. Pharmacologic stress testing was done using adenosine infusion. Patient received 38 mg of adenosine infused at 140 mcg/kg/minute over a period of four minutes. Two minutes during adenosine infusion, 31.6 mCi of Tc-99m tetrofosmin was injected. Resting heart rate was 90 beats per minute. Resting blood pressure was 130/70. Peak heart rate obtained during adenosine infusion was 102 beats per minute. Blood pressure obtained during adenosine infusion was 112/70. During adenosine infusion, patient experienced dizziness and shortness of breath. No significant ST segment, T wave changes, or arrhythmias were seen.Resting Myoview and adenosine Myoview SPECT showed uniform uptake of isotope throughout myocardium without any perfusion defect. Gated dynamic imaging showed normal wall motion and normal systolic thickening throughout left ventricular myocardium. Left ventricular ejection fraction obtained during adenosine Myoview SPECT was 77%. Lung heart ratio was 0.40. TID ratio was 0.88.IMPRESSION: Normal adenosine Myoview myocardial perfusion SPECT. Normal left ventricular regional and global function with left ventricular ejection fraction of 77%."
"MYOVIEW NUCLEAR STRESS STUDYREASON FOR THE TEST: Angina, coronary artery disease.FINDINGS: The patient exercised according to the Lexiscan nuclear stress study, received a total of 0.4 mg of Lexiscan. At peak hyperemic effect, 25.8 mCi of Myoview injected for the stress imaging and earlier 8.1 mCi of Myoview injected for the resting and the usual SPECT and gated SPECT protocol was followed in the rest-stress sequence.The data analyzed using Cedars-Sinai software.The resting heart rate was 49 with the resting blood pressure of 149/86. Maximum heart rate achieved was 69 with a maximum blood pressure achieved of 172/76.EKG at rest showed to be abnormal with sinus rhythm, left atrial enlargement, and inverted T-wave in 1, 2, and aVL as well as from V4 to V6 with LVH. Maximal stress test EKG showed no change from baseline.IMPRESSION: Maximal Lexiscan stress test with abnormal EKG at baseline maximal stress test, please refer to the Myoview interpretation.MYOVIEW INTERPRETATIONSFINDINGS: The left ventricle appears to be dilated on both stress and rest with no significant change between stress and rest with left ventricular end-diastolic volume of 227, end-systolic volume of 154 with moderately to severely reduced LV function with akinesis of the inferior and inferoseptal wall. EF was calculated at 32%, estimated 35% to 40%.Cardiac perfusion reviewed, showed a large area of moderate-to-severe intensity in the inferior wall and small-to-medium area of severe intensity at the apex and inferoapical wall. Both defects showed no change on the resting indicative of a fixed defect in the inferior and inferoapical wall consistent with old inferior inferoapical MI. No reversible defects indicative of myocardium at risk. The lateral walls as well as the septum and most of the anterior wall showed no reversibility and near-normal perfusion.IMPRESSION:1. Large fixed defect, inferior and apical wall, related to old myocardial infarction.2. No reversible ischemia identified.3. Moderately reduced left ventricular function with ejection fraction of about 35% consistent with ischemic cardiomyopathy."
"LEXISCAN MYOVIEW STRESS STUDYREASON FOR THE EXAM: Chest discomfort.INTERPRETATION: The patient exercised according to the Lexiscan study, received a total of 0.4 mg of Lexiscan IV injection. At peak hyperemic effect, 24.9 mCi of Myoview were injected for the stress imaging and earlier 8.2 mCi were injected for the resting and the usual SPECT and gated SPECT protocol was followed and the data was analyzed using Cedars-Sinai software. The patient did not walk because of prior history of inability to exercise long enough on treadmill.The resting heart rate was 57 with the resting blood pressure 143/94. Maximum heart rate achieved was 90 with a maximum blood pressure unchanged.EKG at rest showed sinus rhythm with no significant ST-T wave changes of reversible ischemia or injury. Subtle nonspecific in III and aVF were seen. Maximum stress test EKG showed inverted T wave from V4 to V6. Normal response to Lexiscan.CONCLUSION: Maximal Lexiscan perfusion with subtle abnormalities non-conclusive. Please refer to the Myoview interpretation.MYOVIEW INTERPRETATION: The left ventricle appeared to be normal in size on both stress and rest with no change between the stress and rest with left ventricular end-diastolic volume of 115 and end-systolic of 51. EF estimated and calculated at 56%.Cardiac perfusion reviewed, showed no reversible defect indicative of myocardium risk and no fixed defect indicative of myocardial scarring.IMPRESSION:1. Normal stress/rest cardiac perfusion with no indication of ischemia.2. Normal LV function and low likelihood of significant epicardial coronary narrowing."
"TITLE OF OPERATION: Mediastinal exploration and delayed primary chest closure.INDICATION FOR SURGERY: The patient is a 12-day-old infant who has undergone a modified stage I Norwood procedure with a Sano modification. The patient experienced an unexplained cardiac arrest at the completion of the procedure, which required institution of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation for more than two hours following discontinuation of cardiopulmonary bypass. The patient has been successfully resuscitated with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation and was decannulated 48 hours ago. She did not meet the criteria for delayed primary chest closure.PREOP DIAGNOSIS: Open chest status post modified stage I Norwood procedure.POSTOP DIAGNOSIS: Open chest status post modified stage I Norwood procedure.ANESTHESIA: General endotracheal.COMPLICATIONS: None.FINDINGS: No evidence of intramediastinal purulence or hematoma. At completion of the procedure no major changes in hemodynamic performance.DETAILS OF THE PROCEDURE: After obtaining informed consent, the patient was brought to the room, placed on the operating room table in supine position. Following the administration of general endotracheal anesthesia, the chest was prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion and all the chest drains were removed. The chest was then prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion and previously placed segmental AlloDerm was removed. The mediastinum was then thoroughly irrigated with diluted antibiotic irrigation and both pleural cavities suctioned. Through a separate incision and another 15-French Blake drain was inserted and small titanium clips were utilized to mark the rightward aspect of the RV-PA connection as well as inferior most aspect of the ventriculotomy. The pleural spaces were opened widely and the sternum was then spilled with vancomycin paste and closed the sternum with steel wires. The subcutaneous tissue and skin were closed in layers. There was no evidence of significant increase in central venous pressure or desaturation. The patient tolerated the procedure well. Sponge and needle counts were correct times 2 at the end of the procedure. The patient was transferred to the Pediatric Intensive Care Unit shortly thereafter in critical but stable condition.I was the surgical attending present in the operating room in charge of the surgical procedure throughout the entire length of the case."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:1. Cardiac tamponade.2. Status post mitral valve repair.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:1. Cardiac tamponade.2. Status post mitral valve repair.PROCEDURE PERFORMED: Mediastinal exploration with repair of right atrium.ANESTHESIA: General endotracheal.INDICATIONS: The patient had undergone mitral valve repair about seven days ago. He had epicardial pacing wires removed at the bedside. Shortly afterwards, he began to feel lightheaded and became pale and diaphoretic. He was immediately rushed to the operating room for cardiac tamponade following removal of epicardial pacing wires. He was transported immediately and emergently and remained awake and alert throughout the time period inspite of hypotension with the systolic pressure in the 60s-70s.DETAILS OF PROCEDURE: The patient was taken emergently to the operating room and placed supine on the operating room table. His chest was prepped and draped prior to induction under general anesthesia. Incision was made through the previous median sternotomy chest incision. Wires were removed in the usual manner and the sternum was retracted. There were large amounts of dark blood filling the mediastinal chest cavity. Large amounts of clot were also removed from the pericardial well and chest. Systematic exploration of the mediastinum and pericardial well revealed bleeding from the right atrial appendix at the site of the previous cannulation. This was repaired with two horizontal mattress pledgeted #5-0 Prolene sutures. An additional #0 silk tie was also placed around the base of the atrial appendage for further hemostasis. No other sites of bleeding were identified. The mediastinum was then irrigated with copious amounts of antibiotic saline solution. Two chest tubes were then placed including an angled chest tube into the pericardial well on the inferior border of the heart, as well as straight mediastinal chest tube. The sternum was then reapproximated with stainless steel wires in the usual manner and the subcutaneous tissue was closed in multiple layers with running Vicryl sutures. The skin was then closed with a running subcuticular stitch. The patient was then taken to the Intensive Care Unit in a critical but stable condition."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Posterior mediastinal mass with possible neural foraminal involvement.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Posterior mediastinal mass with possible neural foraminal involvement (benign nerve sheath tumor by frozen section).OPERATION PERFORMED: Left thoracotomy with resection of posterior mediastinal mass.INDICATIONS FOR PROCEDURE: The patient is a 23-year-old woman who recently presented with a posterior mediastinal mass and on CT and MRI there were some evidence of potential widening of one of the neural foramina. For this reason, Dr. X and I agreed to operate on this patient together. Please note that two surgeons were required for this case due to the complexity of it. The indications and risks of the procedure were explained and the patient gave her informed consent.DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: The patient was brought to the operating suite and placed in the supine position. General endotracheal anesthesia was given with a double lumen tube. The patient was positioned for a left thoracotomy. All pressure points were carefully padded. The patient was prepped and draped in usual sterile fashion. A muscle sparing incision was created several centimeters anterior to the tip of the scapula. The serratus and latissimus muscles were retracted. The intercostal space was opened. We then created a thoracoscopy port inferiorly through which we placed a camera for lighting and for visualization. Through our small anterior thoracotomy and with the video-assisted scope placed inferiorly we had good visualization of the posterior mediastinum mass. This was in the upper portion of the mediastinum just posterior to the subclavian artery and aorta. The lung was deflated and allowed to retract anteriorly. With a combination of blunt and sharp dissection and with attention paid to hemostasis, we were able to completely resect the posterior mediastinal mass. We began by opening the tumor and taking a very wide large biopsy. This was sent for frozen section, which revealed a benign nerve sheath tumor. Then, using the occluder device Dr. X was able to _____ the inferior portions of the mass. This left the external surface of the mass much more malleable and easier to retract. Using a bipolar cautery and endoscopic scissors we were then able to completely resect it. Once the tumor was resected, it was then sent for permanent sections. The entire hemithorax was copiously irrigated and hemostasis was complete. In order to prevent any lymph leak, we used 2 cc of Evicel and sprayed this directly on to the raw surface of the pleural space. A single chest tube was inserted through our thoracoscopy port and tunneled up one interspace. The wounds were then closed in multiple layers. A #2 Vicryl was used to approximate the ribs. The muscles of the chest wall were allowed to return to their normal anatomic position. A 19 Blake was placed in the subcutaneous tissues. Subcutaneous tissues and skin were closed with running absorbable sutures. The patient was then rolled in the supine position where she was awakened from general endotracheal anesthesia and taken to the recovery room in stable condition."
"REASON FOR CONSULTATION: Mesothelioma.HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 73-year-old pleasant Caucasian male who is known to me from his previous hospitalization. He has also been seen by me in the clinic in the last few weeks. He was admitted on January 18, 2008, with recurrent malignant pleural effusion. On the same day, he underwent VATS and thoracoscopic drainage of the pleural effusion with right pleural nodule biopsy, lysis of adhesions, and directed talc insufflation by Dr. X. He was found to have 2.5L of bloody pleural effusions, some loculated pleural effusion, adhesions, and carcinomatosis in the parenchyma. His hospital course here has been significant for dyspnea, requiring ICU stay. He also had a chest tube, which was taken out few days ago. He has also had paroxysmal atrial fibrillation, for which he has been on amiodarone by cardiologist. The biopsy from the pleural nodule done on the right on January 18, 2008, shows malignant epithelioid neoplasm consistent with mesothelioma. Immunohistochemical staining showed tumor cells positive for calretinin and focally positive for D2-40, MOC-31. Tumor cells are negative for CDX-2, and monoclonal CEA.The patient at this time reports that overall he has been feeling better with decrease in shortness of breath and cough over the last few days. He does have edema in his lower extremities. He is currently on 4L of oxygen. He denies any nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, recent change in bowel habit, melena, or hematochezia. No neurological or musculoskeletal signs or symptoms. He reports that he is able to ambulate to the bathroom, but gets short of breath on exertion. He denies any other complaints.PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Left ventricular systolic dysfunction as per the previous echocardiogram done in December 2007, history of pneumonia in December 2007, admitted to XYZ Hospital. History of recurrent pleural effusions, status post pleurodesis and locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer as per the biopsy that was done in XYZ Hospital.ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies.CURRENT MEDICATIONS: In the hospital are amiodarone, diltiazem, enoxaparin, furosemide, methylprednisolone, pantoprazole, Zosyn, p.r.n. acetaminophen, and hydrocodone.SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient is married and lives with his spouse. He has history of tobacco smoking and also reports history of alcohol abuse. No history of illicit drug abuse.FAMILY HISTORY: Significant for history of ?cancer? in the mother and history of coronary artery disease in the father.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: As stated above. He denies any obvious asbestos exposure, as far as he can remember.PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONGENERAL: He is awake, alert, in no acute distress. He is currently on 4L of oxygen by nasal cannula.VITAL SIGNS: Blood pressure 97/65 mmHg, respiration is 20 per minute, pulse is 72 per minute, and temperature 98.3 degrees Fahrenheit.HEENT: No icterus or sinus tenderness. Oral mucosa is moist.NECK: Supple. No lymphadenopathy.LUNGS: Clear to auscultation except few diffuse wheezing present bilaterally.CARDIOVASCULAR: S1 and S2 normal.ABDOMEN: Soft, nondistended, and nontender. No hepatosplenomegaly. Bowel sounds are present in all four quadrants.EXTREMITIES: Bilateral pedal edema is present in both the extremities. No signs of DVT.NEUROLOGICAL: Grossly nonfocal.INVESTIGATION: Labs done on January 28, 2008, showed BUN of 23 and creatinine of 0.9. Liver enzymes checked on January 17, 2008, were unremarkable. CBC done on January 26, 2008, showed WBC of 19.8, hemoglobin of 10.7, hematocrit of 30.8, and platelet count of 515,000. Chest x-ray from yesterday shows right-sided Port-A-Cath, diffuse right lung parenchymal and pleural infiltration without change, mild pulmonary vascular congestion.ASSESSMENT1. Mesothelioma versus primary lung carcinoma, two separate reports as for the two separate biopsies done several weeks apart.2. Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.3. Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.4. Malignant pleural effusion, status post surgery as stated above.5. Anemia of chronic disease.RECOMMENDATIONS1. Compare the slides from the previous biopsy done in December at XYZ Hospital with recurrent pleural nodule biopsy slides. I have discussed regarding this with Dr. Y in Pathology here at Methodist XYZ Hospital. I will try to obtain the slides for comparison from XYZ Hospital for comparison and immunohistochemical staining.2. I will also discuss with Dr. X and also with intervention radiologist at XYZ Hospital regarding the exact sites of the two biopsies.3. Once the results of the above are available, I will make further recommendations regarding treatment. The patient has significantly decreased performance status with dyspnea on exertion and is being planned for transfer to Triumph Hospital for rehab, which I agree with.4. Continue present care.Discussed regarding the above in great details with the patient and his wife and daughter and answered the questions to their satisfaction. They clearly understand the above. They also understand his very poor performance status at this time, and the risks and benefits of delaying chemotherapy due to this."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Right pleural effusion and suspected malignant mesothelioma.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Right pleural effusion, suspected malignant mesothelioma.PROCEDURE: Right VATS pleurodesis and pleural biopsy.ANESTHESIA: General double-lumen endotracheal.DESCRIPTION OF FINDINGS: Right pleural effusion, firm nodules, diffuse scattered throughout the right pleura and diaphragmatic surface.SPECIMEN: Pleural biopsies for pathology and microbiology.ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: Minimal.FLUIDS: Crystalloid 1.2 L and 1.9 L of pleural effusion drained.INDICATIONS: Briefly, this is a 66-year-old gentleman who has been transferred from an outside hospital after a pleural effusion had been drained and biopsies taken from the right chest that were thought to be consistent with mesothelioma. Upon transfer, he had a right pleural effusion demonstrated on x-ray as well as some shortness of breath and dyspnea on exertion. The risks, benefits, and alternatives to right VATS pleurodesis and pleural biopsy were discussed with the patient and his family and they wished to proceed.PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: After informed consent was obtained, the patient was brought to the operating room and placed in supine position. A double-lumen endotracheal tube was placed. SCDs were also placed and he was given preoperative Kefzol. The patient was then brought into the right side up, left decubitus position, and the area was prepped and draped in the usual fashion. A needle was inserted in the axillary line to determine position of the effusion. At this time, a 10-mm port was placed using the knife and Bovie cautery. The effusion was drained by placing a sucker into this port site. Upon feeling the surface of the pleura, there were multiple firm nodules. An additional anterior port was then placed in similar fashion. The effusion was then drained with a sucker. Multiple pleural biopsies were taken with the biopsy device in all areas of the pleura. Of note, feeling the diaphragmatic surface, it appeared that it was quite nodular, but these nodules felt as though they were on the other side of the diaphragm and not on the pleural surface of the diaphragm concerning for a possibly metastatic disease. This will be worked up with further imaging study later in his hospitalization. After the effusion had been drained, 2 cans of talc pleurodesis aerosol were used to cover the lung and pleural surface with talc. The lungs were then inflated and noted to inflate well. A 32 curved chest tube chest tube was placed and secured with nylon. The other port site was closed at the level of the fascia with 2-0 Vicryl and then 4-0 Monocryl for the skin. The patient was then brought in the supine position and extubated and brought to recovery room in stable condition.Dr. X was present for the entire procedure which was right VATS pleurodesis and pleural biopsies.The counts were correct x2 at the end of the case."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Metastatic renal cell carcinoma.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Metastatic renal cell carcinoma.PROCEDURE PERFORMED: Left metastasectomy of metastatic renal cell carcinoma with additional mediastinal lymph node dissection and additional fiberoptic bronchoscopy used to confirm adequate placement of the double-lumen endotracheal tube with a tube thoracostomy, which was used to drain the left chest after the procedure.ANESTHESIA: General endotracheal anesthesia with double-lumen endotracheal tube.FINDINGS: Multiple pleural surface seeding, many sub-millimeter suspicious looking lesions.DISPOSITION OF SPECIMENS:To Pathology for permanent analysis as well as tissue banking. The lesions sent for pathologic analysis were the following,1. Level 8 lymph node.2. Level 9 lymph node.3. Wedge, left upper lobe apex, which was also sent to the tissue bank and possible multiple lesions within this wedge.4. Wedge, left upper lobe posterior.5. Wedge, left upper lobe anterior.6. Wedge, left lower lobe superior segment.7. Wedge, left lower lobe diaphragmatic surface, anterolateral.8. Wedge, left lower lobe, anterolateral.9. Wedge, left lower lobe lateral adjacent to fissure.10. Wedge, left upper lobe, apex anterior.11. Lymph node package, additional level 8 lymph node.ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: Less than 100 mL.CONDITION OF THE PATIENT AFTER SURGERY: Stable.HISTORY OF PROCEDURE: The patient was given preoperative informed consent for the procedure as well as for the clinical trial he was enrolled into. The patient agreed based on the risks and the benefits of the procedure, which were presented to him and was taken to the operating room. A correct time out procedure was performed. The patient was placed into the supine position. He was given general anesthesia, was endotracheally intubated without incident with a double-lumen endotracheal tube. Fiberoptic bronchoscopy was used to perform confirmation of adequate placement of the double-lumen tube. Following this, the decision was made to proceed with the surgery. The patient was rolled into the right lateral decubitus position with the left side up. All pressure points were padded. The patient had a sterile DuraPrep preparation to the left chest. A sterile drape around that was applied. Also, the patient had Marcaine infused into the incision area. Following this, the patient had a posterolateral thoracotomy incision, which was a muscle-sparing incision with a posterior approach just over the ausculatory triangle. The incision was approximately 10 cm in size. This was created with a 10-blade scalpel. Bovie electrocautery was used to dissect the subcutaneous tissues. The auscultatory triangle was opened. The posterior aspect of the latissimus muscle was divided from the adjacent tissue and retracted anteriorly. The muscle was not divided. After the latissimus muscle was retracted anteriorly, the ribs were counted, and the sixth rib was identified. The superior surface of the sixth rib was incised with Bovie electrocautery and the sixth rib was divided with rib shears. Following this, the patient had the entire intercostal muscle separated from the superior aspect of the sixth rib on the left as far as the Bovie would reach. The left lung was allowed to collapse and meticulous inspection of the left lung identified the lesions, which were taken out with stapled wedge resections via a TA30 green load stapler for all of the wedges. The patient tolerated the procedure well without any complications. The largest lesion was the left upper lobe apex lesion, which was possibly multiple lesions, which was taken in one large wedge segment, and this was also adjacent to another area of the wedges. The patient had multiple pleural abnormalities, which were identified on the surface of the lung. These were small white spotty looking lesions and were not confirmed to be tumor implants, but were suspicious to be multiple areas of tumor. Based on this, the wedges of the tumors that were easily palpable were excised with complete excision of all palpable lesions. Following this, the patient had a 32-French chest tube placed in the anteroapical position. A 19-French Blake was placed in the posterior apical position. The patient had the intercostal space reapproximated with #2-0 Vicryl suture, and the lung was allowed to be re-expanded under direct visualization. Following this, the chest tubes were placed to Pleur-evac suction and the auscultatory triangle was closed with 2-0 Vicryl sutures. The deeper tissue was closed with 3-0 Vicryl suture, and the skin was closed with running 4-0 Monocryl suture in a subcuticular fashion. The patient tolerated the procedure well and had no complications."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Airway obstruction secondary to laryngeal subglottic stenosis.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Airway obstruction secondary to laryngeal subglottic stenosis and tracheal stenosis.OPERATION PERFORMED: Suspension microlaryngoscopy, rigid bronchoscopy, dilation of tracheal stenosis.INDICATIONS FOR SURGERY: The patient is a 56-year-old white female with a history of relapsing polychondritis, which resulted in saddle nose deformity in glottic and subglottic stenosis for which she has undergone number of procedures in the past to the upper airway. She currently is trach dependent for her airway because of glottic and subglottic stenosis, but she is having no significant problems breathing and talking around her trach tube and came for further evaluation. Endoscopic reevaluation of her tube and nature of the proposed procedure done. Risk and complications of bleeding, infection, alteration of with speech or swallowing, failure to improve her airway, and loss of voice. Cardiorespiratory anesthetic results were discussed in length. The patient states she understood and wished to proceed.DESCRIPTION OF OPERATION: The patient was taken to the operating room and placed in the supine position. Under adequate general endotracheal anesthesia, the patient's #5 metal tracheostomy tube was removed and a #5 laser-safe endotracheal tube was inserted. The patient was then prepared for endoscopy. The Kantor laryngoscope was then inserted. Oral cavity, hypopharynx, larynx, and nasal cavity showed good dentition with good tongue, buccal cavity, and mucosa without lesions. Larynx was then ***** short epiglottis. Larynx was suspended with significant scarring beginning in the supraglottic area with loss of laryngeal contour beginning in the supraglottis with extensive scar tissue at the level of the false cord obliteration of ventricles and true cords. This appeared to be stable, and airway was patent at the supraglottic and glottic level with some narrowing at the subglottic level with mild-to-moderate subglottic stenosis, otherwise this appeared to be stable. However, distally, the level of the trach site examined with the microscope and 0 and 30-degree telescopes. The patient noted to have marked narrowing with dense scarring posterolaterally on the left securing good visualization of the trach tube. The laryngoscope was removed, and a 5 x 30 pediatric rigid bronchoscope was then passed. The LP contact tip laser was utilized to vaporize the scar tissue and release the scar banding following which the scope was passed and further dilation carried out. Mid and distal trachea were widely patent. Trachea and mainstem bronchi were patent without obvious disease. The patient did not appear to have any relapsing polychondritis with progressive scar tissue at the level of the trach site and the posterior trachea wall was significant. This was further dilated and following which was removed and a new #5 metal tracheostomy tube inserted. The patient tolerated the procedure well without complications and was taken to recovery room in satisfactory condition."
"OPERATIONS1. Mitral valve repair using a quadrangular resection of the P2 segment of the posterior leaflet.2. Mitral valve posterior annuloplasty using a Cosgrove Galloway Medtronic fuser band.3. Posterior leaflet abscess resection.ANESTHESIA: General endotracheal anesthesiaTIMES: Aortic cross-clamp time was ** minutes. Cardiopulmonary bypass time total was ** minutes.PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: After obtaining informed consent from the patient, including a thorough explanation of the risks and benefits of the aforementioned procedure, the patient was taken to the operating room and general endotracheal anesthesia was administered. Next, the patient's chest and legs were prepped and draped in standard surgical fashion. A #10-blade scalpel was used to make a midline median sternotomy incision. Dissection was carried down to the level of the sternum using Bovie electrocautery. The sternum was opened with a sternal saw, and full-dose heparinization was given. Next, the chest retractor was positioned. The pericardium was opened with Bovie electrocautery and pericardial stay sutures were positioned. We then prepared to place the patient on cardiopulmonary bypass. A 2-0 Ethibond double pursestring was placed in the ascending aorta. Through this was passed our aortic cannula and connected to the arterial side of the cardiopulmonary bypass machine. Next, double cannulation with venous cannulas was instituted. A 3-0 Prolene pursestring was placed in the right atrial appendage. Through this was passed our SEC cannula. This was connected to the venous portion of the cardiopulmonary bypass machine in a Y-shaped circuit. Next, a 3-0 Prolene pursestring was placed in the lower border of the right atrium. Through this was passed our inferior vena cava cannula. This was likewise connected to the Y connection of our venous cannula portion. We then used a 4-0 U-stitch in the right atrium for our retrograde cardioplegia catheter, which was inserted. Cardiopulmonary bypass was instituted. Metzenbaum scissors were used to dissect out the SVC and IVC, which were subsequently encircled with umbilical tape. Sondergaard's groove was taken down. Next, an antegrade cardioplegia needle and associated sump were placed in the ascending aorta. This was connected appropriately as was the retrograde cardioplegia catheter. Next, the aorta was cross-clamped, and antegrade and retrograde cardioplegia was infused so as to arrest the heart in diastole. Next a #15-blade scalpel was used to open the left atrium. The left atrium was decompressed with pump sucker. Next, our self-retaining retractor was positioned so as to bring the mitral valve up into view. Of note was the fact that the mitral valve P2 segment of the posterior leaflet had an abscess associated with it. The borders of the P2 segment abscess were defined by using a right angle to define the chordae which were encircled with a 4-0 silk. After doing so, the P2 segment of the posterior leaflet was excised with a #11-blade scalpel. Given the laxity of the posterior leaflet, it was decided to reconstruct it with a 2-0 Ethibond pledgeted suture. This was done so as to reconstruct the posterior annular portion. Prior to doing so, care was taken to remove any debris and abscess-type material. The pledgeted stitch was lowered into place and tied. Next, the more anterior portion of the P2 segment was reconstructed by running a 4-0 Prolene stitch so as to reconstruct it. This was done without difficulty. The apposition of the anterior and posterior leaflet was confirmed by infusing solution into the left ventricle. There was noted to be a small amount of central regurgitation. It was felt that this would be corrected with our annuloplasty portion of the procedure. Next, 2-0 non-pledgeted Ethibond sutures were placed in the posterior portion of the annulus from trigone to trigone in interrupted fashion. Care was taken to go from trigone to trigone. Prior to placing these sutures, the annulus was sized and noted to be a *** size for the Cosgrove-Galloway suture band ring from Medtronic. After, as mentioned, we placed our interrupted sutures in the annulus, and they were passed through the CG suture band. The suture band was lowered into position and tied in place. We then tested our repair and noted that there was very mild regurgitation. We subsequently removed our self-retaining retractor. We closed our left atriotomy using 4-0 Prolene in a running fashion. This was done without difficulty. We de-aired the heart. We then gave another round of antegrade and retrograde cardioplegia in warm fashion. The aortic cross-clamp was removed, and the heart gradually resumed electromechanical activity. We then removed our retrograde cardioplegia catheter from the coronary sinus and buttressed this site with a 5-0 Prolene. We placed 2 ventricular and 2 atrial pacing leads which were brought out through the skin. The patient was gradually weaned off cardiopulmonary bypass and our venous cannulas were removed. We then gave full-dose protamine; and after noting that there was no evidence of a protamine reaction, we removed our aortic cannula. This site was buttressed with a 4-0 Prolene on an SH needle. The patient tolerated the procedure well. We placed a mediastinal #32-French chest tube as well as a right chest Blake drain. The mediastinum was inspected for any signs of bleeding. There were none. We closed the sternum with #7 sternal wires in interrupted figure-of-eight fashion. The fascia was closed with a #1 Vicryl followed by a 2-0 Vicryl, followed by 3-0 Vicryl in a running subcuticular fashion. The instrument and sponge count was correct at the end of the case. The patient tolerated the procedure well and was transferred to the intensive care unit in good condition."
"CC: Found unresponsive.HX: 39 y/o RHF complained of a severe HA at 2AM 11/4/92. It was unclear whether she had been having HA prior to this. She took an unknown analgesic, then vomited, then lay down in bed with her husband. When her husband awoke at 8AM he found her unresponsive with \"\"stiff straight arms\"\" and a \"\"strange breathing pattern.\"\" A Brain CT scan revealed a large intracranial mass. She was intubated and hyperventilated to ABG (7.43/36/398). Other local lab values included: WBC 9.8, RBC 3.74, Hgb 13.8, Hct 40.7, Cr 0.5, BUN 8.5, Glucose 187, Na 140, K 4.0, Cl 107. She was given Mannitol 1gm/kg IV load, DPH 20mg/kg IV load, and transferred by helicopter to UIHC.PMH: 1)Myasthenia Gravis for 15 years, s/p ThymectomyMEDS: Imuran, Prednisone, Mestinon, Mannitol, DPH, IV NSFHX/SHX: Married. Tobacco 10 pack-year; quit nearly 10 years ago. ETOH/Substance Abuse unknown.EXAM: 35.8F, 99BPM, BP117/72, Mechanically ventilated at a rate of 22RPM on !00%FiO2. Unresponsive to verbal stimulation. CN: Pupils 7mm/5mm and unresponsive to light (fixed). No spontaneous eye movement or blink to threat. No papilledema or intraocular hemorrhage noted. Trace corneal reflexes bilaterally. No gag reflex. No oculocephalic reflex. MOTOR/SENSORY: No spontaneous movement. On noxious stimulation (Deep nail bed pressure) she either extended both upper extremities (RUE>LUE), or withdrew the stimulated extremity (right > left). Gait/Station/Coordination no tested. Reflexes: 1+ on right and 2+ on left with bilateral Babinski signs.HCT 11/4/92: Large heterogeneous mass in the right temporal-parietal region causing significant parenchymal distortion and leftward subfalcine effect . There is low parenchymal density within the white matter. A hyperdense ring lies peripherally and may represent hemorrhage or calcification. The mass demonstrates inhomogeneous enhancement with contrast.COURSE: Head of bed elevated to 30 degrees, Mannitol and DPH were continued. MRI of Brain demonstrated a large right parietal mass with necrotic appearing center and leftward shift of midline structures. She underwent surgical resection of the tumor. Pathological analysis was consistent with adenocarcinoma. GYN exam, CT Abdomen and Pelvis, Bone scan were unremarkable. CXR revealed an right upper lobe lung nodule. She did not undergo thoracic biopsy due to poor condition. She received 3000 cGy cranial XRT in ten fractions and following this was discharged to a rehabilitation center.In March, 1993 the patient exhibited right ptosis, poor adduction and abduction OD, 4/4 strength in the upper extremities and 5-/5- strength in the lower extremities. She was ambulatory with an ataxic gait.She was admitted on 7/12/93 for lower cervical and upper thoracic pain, paraparesis and T8 sensory level. MRI brainstem/spine on that day revealed decreased T1 signal in the C2, C3, C6 vertebral bodies, increased T2 signal in the anterior medulla, and tectum, and spinal cord (C7-T3). Following injection of Gadolinium there was diffuse leptomeningeal enhancement from C7-T7 These findings were felt consistent with metastatic disease including possible leptomeningeal spread. Neurosurgery and Radiation Oncology agreed that the patients symptoms could be due to either radiation injury and/or metastasis. The patient was treated with Decadron and analgesics and discharged to a hospice center (her choice). She died a few months later."
"REASON FOR CONSULTATION: Loculated left effusion, multilobar pneumonia. CHIEF COMPLAINT/HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 67-year-old female who was admitted to the hospital on 12/22/09 when she had a diagnosis of multilobar pneumonia along with arrhythmia and heart failure as well as renal insufficiency. Post admission various measures were instituted to address her different manifestations including Cardizem drip. She had rehydration performed and also was given some diuretics. Ultimately there was improvement in her febrile status and renal status. However most recently she had elevated white count and a repeat CAT scan was performed. This showed fluid collection in the left chest but also in the right chest. The left fluid collection was also felt to be loculated. At the same time she was appearing to be quite ill with elevated white count, elevated temperature and for these reasons cardiothoracic consultation was obtained for addressing this fluid collection in the left chest. PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for asthma, hypertension and history of pneumonias. MEDICATIONS: At home she was on Symbicort, ibuprofen, prednisone and Biaxin. Currently she is also on Zyprexa, alcohol withdrawal medications, Zosyn 3.375 grams every eight hours, Lasix 20 mg daily, Cardizem CD 120 mg daily, Nexium 40 mg p.o. daily, Solu-Cortef 50 mg q.24h., Lovenox 40 mg subcu daily, NovoLog sliding scale insulin. SOCIAL HISTORY: Alcohol drinking history, quit smoking about 30 years ago. The patient is married. ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies. REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: No remarkable surgical history present. The patient at this time appears confused and the chart review as well as talking to the son revealed most of the history. Apart from recent fevers and confusion the system review is negative. EXAMINATION: On examination she is lying supine in bed, appears comfortable, awake, alert but is not oriented and is quite confused. Blood pressure is 110/70, heart rate is 80 per minute regular rhythm, saturations are 98 and 99% on four liters nasal cannula. HEENT pupils equal, extraocular movements intact. Sclerae anicteric. Conjunctivae are pink and moist. Neck is supple. Trachea is midline. Thyroid is not enlarged. I did not appreciate any neck masses or neck bruits. Bilateral crackles and rales in the mid lung fields more prominent on the left side and markedly diminished breath sounds especially in the left base. S1, S2 regular rate and rhythm. No murmurs, rubs or gallops. Abdomen is soft, no organomegaly, nontender, normoactive bowel sounds. Extremities do not reveal cyanosis, clubbing or edema. There is 1+ peripheral edema. LABORATORY DATA: Review of lab data white count 13.4, hemoglobin 8.6 and hematocrit 25, platelet count 317. BUN and creatinine 10 and 0.9. review of CT scan data infiltrate consolidation in multiple lobes of the lung both on the left side as well as at the right base. Right pleural effusion small layering at the base. Left pleural effusion appears to have loculations within the fissure as well as along the chest wall. IMPRESSION AND PLAN: The patient is a 67-year-old female who is recovering from multilobar pneumonia and is on antibiotics. It appears she has had progression of her disease process in her left chest with now forming loculations. We have been asked to consult for management of this pleural effusion. After discussion with the patient's son who would like to proceed in a step-wise fashion from least invasive to most invasive techniques, I counseled him that we should start with chest tube placement and this should be followed with Activase instillation to try to break up the loculations, pending on the findings on the chest tube placement. If necessary video assisted thoracoscopic procedure or open decortication can be performed."
"and congestive heart failure."
"PROCEDURE PERFORMED:1. Left heart catheterization, left ventriculogram, aortogram, coronary angiogram.2. PCI of the LAD and left main coronary artery with Impella assist device.INDICATIONS FOR PROCEDURE: Unstable angina and congestive heart failure with impaired LV function.TECHNIQUE OF PROCEDURE: After obtaining informed consent, the patient was brought to the cardiac catheterization suite in postabsorptive and nonsedated state. The right groin was prepped and draped in the usual sterile manner. Lidocaine 2% was used for infiltration anesthesia. Using modified Seldinger technique, a 7-French sheath was introduced into the right common femoral artery and a 6-French sheath was introduced into the right common femoral vein. Through the arterial sheath, angiography of the right common femoral artery was obtained. Thereafter, 6-French pigtail catheter was advanced to the level of the distal aorta where angiography of the distal aorta and the bifurcation of the right and left common iliac arteries was obtained. Thereafter, a 4-French sheath was introduced into the left common femoral artery using modified Seldinger technique. Thereafter, the pigtail catheter was advanced over an 0.035-inch J-wire into the left ventricle and LV-gram was performed in RAO view and after pullback, an aortogram was performed in the LAO view. Therefore, a 6-French JL4 and JR4 guiding catheters were used to engage the left and right coronary arteries respectively and multiple orthogonal views of the coronary arteries were obtained.ANGIOGRAPHIC FINDINGS: 1. LV-gram: LVEDP was 15 mmHg. LV ejection fraction 10% to 15% with global hypokinesis. Only anterior wall is contracting. There was no mitral regurgitation. There was no gradient across the aortic valve upon pullback, and on aortography, there was no evidence of aortic dissection or aortic regurgitation.2. The right coronary artery is a dominant vessels with a mid 50% to 70% stenosis which was not treated. The left main coronary artery calcified vessel with disease.2. The left anterior descending artery had an 80% to 90% mid-stenosis. First diagonal branch had a more than 90% stenosis.3. The circumflex coronary artery had a patent stent.INTERVENTION: After reviewing the angiographic images, we elected to proceed with intervention of the left anterior descending artery. The 4-French sheath in the left common femoral artery was upsized to a 12-French Impella sheath through which an Amplatz wire and a 6-French multipurpose catheter were advanced into the left ventricle. The Amplatz wire was exchanged for an Impella 0.018-inch stiff wire. The multipurpose catheter was removed, and the Impella was advanced into the left ventricle and a performance level of 8 was achieved with a cardiac output of 2 to 2.5 l/min. Thereafter, a 7-French JL4 guiding catheter was used to engage the left coronary artery and an Asahi soft 0.014-inch wire was advanced into the left anterior descending artery and a second 0.014-inch Asahi soft wire was advanced into the diagonal branch. The diagonal branch was predilated with a 2.5 x 30-mm Sprinter balloon at nominal atmospheres and thereafter a 2.5 x 24 Endeavor stent was successfully deployed in the mid-LAD and a 3.0 x 15-mm Endeavor stent was deployed in the proximal LAD. The stent delivery balloon was used to post-dilate the overlapping segment. The LAD, the diagonal was rewires with an 0.014-inch Asahi soft wire and a 3.0 x 20-mm Maverick balloon was advanced into the LAD for post-dilatation and a 2.0 x 30-mm Sprinter balloon was advanced into the diagonal for kissing inflations which were performed at nominal atmospheres. At this point, it was noted that the left main had a retrograde dissection. A 3.5 x 18-mm Endeavor stent was successfully deployed in the left main coronary artery. The Asahi soft wire in the diagonal was removed and placed into the circumflex coronary artery. Kissing inflations of the LAD and the circumflex coronary artery were performed using 3.0 x 20 Maverick balloons x2 balloons, inflated at high atmospheres of 14.RESULTS: Lesion reduction in the LAD FROM 90% to 0% and TIMI 3 flow obtained. Lesion reduction in the diagonal from 90% to less than 60% and TIMI 3 flow obtained. Lesion reduction in the left maintained coronary artery from 50% to 0% and TIMI 3 flow obtained.The patient tolerated the procedure well and the inflations well with no evidence of any hemodynamic instability. The Impella device was gradually decreased from performance level of 8 to performance level of 1 at which point it was removed into the aorta and it was turned off and the Impella was removed from the body and the 2 Perclose sutures were tightened. From the right common femoral artery, a 6-French IMA catheter was advanced and an 0.035-inch wire down into the left common femoral and superficial femoral artery, over which an 8 x 40 balloon was advanced and tamponade of the arteriotomy site of the left common femoral artery was performed from within the artery at 3 atmospheres for a total of 20 minutes. The right common femoral artery and vein sheaths were both sutured in place for further observation. Of note, the patient received Angiomax during the procedure and an ACT above 300 was maintained.IMPRESSION:1. Left ventricular dysfunction with ejection fraction of 10% to 15%.2. High complex percutaneous coronary intervention of the left main coronary artery, left anterior descending artery, and diagonal with Impella circulatory support.COMPLICATIONS: None.The patient tolerated the procedure well with no complications. The estimated blood loss was 200 ml. Estimated dye used was 200 ml of Visipaque. The patient remained hemodynamically stable with no hypotension and no hematomas in the groins.PLAN: 1. Aspirin, Plavix, statins, beta blockers, ACE inhibitors as tolerated.2. Hydration.3. The patient will be observed over night for any hemodynamic instability or ischemia. If she remains stable, the right common femoral artery and vein sheaths will be removed and manual pressure will be applied for hemostasis."
"REASON FOR CONSULTATION: New murmur with bacteremia.HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is an 84-year-old female admitted with jaundice and a pancreatic mass who was noted to have a new murmur, bacteremia, and fever. The patient states that apart from the fever, she was having no other symptoms and denies any previous cardiac history. She denies any orthopnea or paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea. Denies any edema, chest pain, palpitations, or syncope. She has had TIAs in the past, but none recently.PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for diabetes, hypertension, and TIA.MEDICATIONS: Include:1. Acidophilus supplement.2. Cholestyramine.3. Creon 20 three times daily.4. Diovan 160 mg twice daily.6. Lantus 10 daily.7. Norvasc 5 mg daily.8. NovoLog 70/30, 10 units at 12 noon daily.9. Pamelor 15 mL every evening.10. Vitamin D3 one tablet weekly.ALLERGIES: THE PATIENT IS ALLERGIC TO CODEINE, COREG, AND VANCOMYCIN.FAMILY HISTORY: The patient's daughter apparently has history of a murmur, but no diagnosis of congenital heart disease. The patient's father died in his 80s of CHF.SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient denies ever having smoked, denies any significant alcohol use, and lives with her daughter in Pasadena.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: The patient has had fever and chills. She has also had some jaundice. Denies any nausea or vomiting. Denies any chest pain or abdominal pain. Denies orthopnea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea or edema. She has had TIAs in the past, but denies any recent neurological symptoms such as motor weakness or focal sensory deficits. Denies melena or hematochezia. All other systems were reviewed and were found to be negative.PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONGENERAL: An elderly Caucasian female, awake and alert, and in no distress.VITAL SIGNS: Temperature is 98.8, heart rate 96, sinus, blood pressure 138/55, respiratory rate 20, and oxygen saturation 92%.HEAD AND NECK: Her head is atraumatic. She is normocephalic. Her neck is supple. There is no JVD. No palpable adenopathy or thyromegaly. There is some icterus of the sclerae bilaterally. Oral mucosa is moist.CHEST: Symmetrical expansion with normal percussion note. There are no inspiratory crackles or expiratory wheeze.CARDIAC: Heart sounds S1 and S2 are regular. There is a 2/6 systolic murmur heard through the precordium. There is no gallop or rub. There is no palpable thrill or retrosternal lift.ABDOMEN: Soft, nondistended, and nontender with normal bowel sounds. No audible bruits.EXTREMITIES: No pitting edema, no clubbing, no cyanosis, and peripheral pulses are 2+.NEUROLOGIC: She exhibits no focal motor or sensory findings.LABORATORY DATA: The patient's sodium was 133, potassium 2.8, chloride 99, bicarbonate 31, glucose 75, BUN 12, creatinine 0.8, calcium 8.6, total bilirubin 3.2, AST 63, and ALT 43. White count 5.4, hemoglobin 9.1, hematocrit 26.6, and platelet count 128,000. Lipase less than 10.DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING: The patient had a CT scan of the abdomen that demonstrated a pancreatic mass with biliary obstruction. Previous biliary stent was present.EKG shows normal sinus rhythm. There are no acute ST-T changes.ASSESSMENT: This is an 84-year-old female with newly found murmur. No previous history of heart disease. This murmur has occurred in the setting of fever and bacteremia. The patient also has a pancreatic mass with jaundice, history of hypertension, and now has hyponatremia and hypokalemia.PLAN: The patient should undergo an echocardiogram to assess for the possibility of endocarditis, which may be contributing to her symptoms. Blood pressure control should be maintained with Diovan and Norvasc. Potassium should be replaced, and hyponatremia should be on proactive."
"MEDICATIONS: Plavix, atenolol, Lipitor, and folic acid.CLINICAL HISTORY: This is a 41-year-old male patient who comes in with chest pain, had had a previous MI in 07/2003 and stents placement in 2003, who comes in for a stress myocardial perfusion scan.With the patient at rest, 10.3 mCi of Cardiolite technetium-99 m sestamibi was injected and myocardial perfusion imaging was obtained.PROCEDURE AND INTERPRETATION: The patient exercised for a total of 12 minutes on the standard Bruce protocol. The peak workload was 12.8 METS. The resting heart rate was 57 beats per minute and the peak heart rate was 123 beats per minute, which was 69% of the age-predicted maximum heart rate response. The blood pressure response was normal with a resting blood pressure of 130/100 and a peak blood pressure of 158/90. The test was stopped due to fatigue and leg pain. EKG at rest showed normal sinus rhythm. The peak stress EKG did not reveal any ischemic ST-T wave abnormalities. There was ventricular bigeminy seen during exercise, but no sustained tachycardia was seen. At peak, there was no chest pain noted. The test was stopped due to fatigue and left pain. At peak stress, the patient was injected with 30.3 mCi of Cardiolite technetium-99 m sestamibi and myocardial perfusion imaging was obtained, and was compared to resting myocardial perfusion imaging.MYOCARDIAL PERFUSION IMAGING:1. The overall quality of the scan was good.2. There was no diagnostic abnormality on the rest and stress myocardial perfusion imaging.3. The left ventricular cavity appeared normal in size.4. Gated SPECT images revealed mild septal hypokinesis and mild apical hypokinesis. Overall left ventricular systolic function was low normal with calculated ejection fraction of 46% at rest.CONCLUSIONS:1. Good exercise tolerance.2. Less than adequate cardiac stress. The patient was on beta-blocker therapy.3. No EKG evidence of stress induced ischemia.4. No chest pain with stress.5. Mild ventricular bigeminy with exercise.6. No diagnostic abnormality on the rest and stress myocardial perfusion imaging.7. Gated SPECT images revealed septal and apical hypokinesis with overall low normal left ventricular systolic function with calculated ejection fraction of 46% at rest."
"CLINICAL HISTORY: This is a 64-year-old male patient, who had a previous stress test, which was abnormal and hence has been referred for a stress test with imaging for further classification of coronary artery disease and ischemia.PERTINENT MEDICATIONS: Include Tylenol, Robitussin, Colace, Fosamax, multivitamins, hydrochlorothiazide, Protonix and flaxseed oil.With the patient at rest 10.5 mCi of Cardiolite technetium-99 m sestamibi was injected and myocardial perfusion imaging was obtained.PROCEDURE AND INTERPRETATION: The patient exercised for a total of 4 minutes and 41 seconds on the standard Bruce protocol. The peak workload was 7 METs. The resting heart rate was 61 beats per minute and the peak heart rate was 173 beats per minute, which was 85% of the age-predicted maximum heart rate response. The blood pressure response was normal with the resting blood pressure 126/86, and the peak blood pressure of 134/90. EKG at rest showed normal sinus rhythm with a right-bundle branch block. The peak stress EKG was abnormal with 2 mm of ST segment depression in V3 to V6, which remained abnormal till about 6 to 8 minutes into recovery. There were occasional PVCs, but no sustained arrhythmia. The patient had an episode of supraventricular tachycardia at peak stress. The ischemic threshold was at a heart rate of 118 beats per minute and at 4.6 METs. At peak stress, the patient was injected with 30.3 mCi of Cardiolite technetium-99 m sestamibi and myocardial perfusion imaging was obtained, and was compared to resting images.MYOCARDIAL PERFUSION IMAGING:1. The overall quality of the scan was fair in view of increased abdominal uptake, increased bowel uptake seen.2. There was a large area of moderate to reduced tracer concentration seen in the inferior wall and the inferior apex. This appeared to be partially reversible in the resting images.3. The left ventricle appeared normal in size.4. Gated SPECT images revealed normal wall motion and normal left ventricular systolic function with normal wall thickening. The calculated ejection fraction was 70% at rest.CONCLUSIONS:1. Average exercise tolerance.2. Adequate cardiac stress.3. Abnormal EKG response to stress, consistent with ischemia. No symptoms of chest pain at rest.4. Myocardial perfusion imaging was abnormal with a large-sized, moderate intensity partially reversible inferior wall and inferior apical defect, consistent with inferior wall ischemia and inferior apical ischemia.5. The patient had run of SVT at peak stress.6. Gated SPECT images revealed normal wall motion and normal left ventricular systolic function."
"DIAGNOSIS: Shortness of breath. Fatigue and weakness. Hypertension. Hyperlipidemia.INDICATION: To evaluate for coronary artery disease.TEST: Myocardial perfusion study at rest and stress, gated SPECT wall motion study at stress and calculation of ejection fraction.RADIOPHARMACEUTICAL: Technetium 99m and Tetrofosmin.DOSE: Dose was 10.8mCi at rest and 30.7mCi at stress intravenous.DESCRIPTION: Stress test was performed on Bruce protocol for 5 minutes and 3 seconds.Baseline heart rate was 75 bpm. Maximum heart rate was 98 bpm. The patient did not achieve submax target heart rate. Stress test was nondiagnostic for ischemia.Blood pressure response was flat during the stress test. Resting blood pressure was 138/78 reaching 130/80 at peak exercise. The patient did not experience chest pain during exercise or post exercise. Resting EKG shows normal sinus rhythm with anteroseptal wall myocardial infarction, age undetermined, and nonspecific ST-T changes. Nonspecific ST-T changes at post exercise. The EKG did not show ST segment changes diagnostic for ischemia. The patient had myocardial perfusion imaging performed using Technetium 99m and Tetrofosmin, 10.8mCi at rest and 30.7mCi at peak exercise. Imaging was performed using tomographic technique.FINDING: The left ventricle was normal in size. There was no myocardial perfusion defect noted.Resting gated SPECT wall motion study reveals normal left ventricular wall motion with ejection fraction of 77%.Regional wall motion was normal.IMPRESSION:1. Normal myocardial perfusion study.2. Normal response to exercise.3. Normal left ventricular wall motion with ejection fraction of 77%.4. Resting right ventricular function was normal."
"INDICATIONS: Previously markedly abnormal dobutamine Myoview stress test and gated scan.PROCEDURE DONE: Resting Myoview perfusion scan and gated myocardial scan.MYOCARDIAL PERFUSION IMAGING: Resting myocardial perfusion SPECT imaging and gated scan were carried out with 32.6 mCi of Tc-99m Myoview. Rest study was done and compared to previous dobutamine Myoview stress test done on Month DD, YYYY. The lung heart ratio is 0.34. There appears to be a moderate size inferoapical perfusion defect of moderate degree. The gated myocardial scan revealed mild apical and distal inferoseptal hypokinesis with ejection fraction of 55%.CONCLUSIONS: Study done at rest only revealed findings consistent with an inferior non-transmural scar of moderate size and moderate degree. The left ventricular systolic function is markedly improved with much better regional wall motion of all left ventricular segments when compared to previous study done on Month DD, YYYY. We cannot assess the presence of any reversible perfusion defects because no stress imaging was performed."
"REASON FOR CONSULT: A patient with non-Q-wave myocardial infarction.HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a pleasant 52-year-old gentleman with a history of diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and renal failure, on dialysis, who presented with emesis, dizziness, and nausea for the last few weeks. The patient reports having worsening emesis and emesis a few times. No definite chest pains. The patient is breathing okay. The patient denies orthopnea or PND.PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:1. Diabetes mellitus.2. Hypertension.3. Renal failure, on dialysis.MEDICATIONS: Aspirin, Coreg, doxazosin, insulin, metoclopramide, simvastatin, and Starlix.ALLERGIES: NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES.SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient denies tobacco, alcohol or drug use.FAMILY HISTORY: Negative for early atherosclerotic heart disease.REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: General: The patient denies fever or chills. Pulmonary: The patient denies hemoptysis. Cardiovascular: Refer to HPI. GI: The patient denies hematemesis or melena. The rest of systems review is negative.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:VITAL SIGNS: Pulse 71, blood pressure 120/70, and respiratory rate 18.GENERAL: A well-nourished, well-developed male in no acute distress.HEENT: Normocephalic, atraumatic. Pupils seem to be equal, round, and reactive. Extraocular muscles are full, but the patient has left eye ptosis.NECK: Supple without JVD or lymphadenopathy.LUNGS: Clear to auscultation bilaterally.CARDIOVASCULAR: PMI is displaced 0.5 cm lateral to the midclavicular line. Regular rate and rhythm, S1, S2. No definite S3, 2/6 holosystolic murmur at the apex radiating to the axilla.ABDOMEN: Positive bowel sounds, nondistended and nontender. No hepatosplenomegaly.EXTREMITIES: Trace pedal edema.EKG shows atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response at 164 with old anteroseptal myocardial infarction and old inferior wall myocardial infarction. Subsequent EKG in sinus rhythm shows sinus rhythm with old inferior wall myocardial infarction and probable anteroseptal myocardial infarction with Q-waves in V1, V2, and up to V3.LABORATORY EXAM: WBC 28,800, hemoglobin 13.6, hematocrit 40, and platelets 266,000. PT 11.3, INR 1.1, and PTT 24.1. Sodium 126, potassium 4.3, chloride 86, CO2 26, glucose 371, BUN 80, and creatinine 8.4. CK was 261, then 315, and then 529 with CK-MB of 8.06, then 8.69, and then 24.6. Troponin was 0.051, then 0.46, and then 19.8 this morning.IMPRESSION:1. Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. The heart rate was slowed down with IV Cardizem, the patient converted to sinus rhythm. The patient is currently in sinus rhythm.2. Emesis. The etiology is unclear. The patient reports that the emesis is better. The patient is just having some nausea.3. Non-Q-wave myocardial infarction. EKG shows atrial fibrillation with old anteroseptal myocardial infarction and old inferior wall myocardial infarction.4. Diabetes mellitus.5. Renal failure.6. Hypertension.7. Hypercholesterolemia.PLAN:1. We will start amiodarone to keep from going back into atrial fibrillation.2. Echocardiogram.3. Aspirin and IV heparin.4. Serial CK-MB and troponin.5. Cardiac catheterization, possible percutaneous coronary intervention. The risks, benefits, and alternatives were explained to the patient through a translator. The patient understands and wishes to proceed.6. IV Integrilin."
"NUCLEAR CARDIOLOGY/CARDIAC STRESS REPORTINDICATION FOR STUDY: Recurrent angina pectoris in a patient with documented ischemic heart disease and underlying ischemic cardiomyopathy.PROCEDURE: The patient was studied in the resting state following intravenous delivery of adenosine triphosphate at 140 mcg/kg/min delivered over a total of 4 minutes. At completion of the second minute of infusion, the patient received technetium Cardiolite per protocol. During this interval, the blood pressure 150/86 dropped to near 136/80 and returned to near 166/84 at completion. No diagnostic electrocardiographic abnormalities were elaborated during this study.REGIONAL MYOCARDIAL PERFUSION WITH ADENOSINE PROVOCATION: Scintigraphic study reveals at this time multiple fixed defects in perfusion suggesting indeed multivessel coronary artery disease, yet no active ischemia at this time. A fixed defect is seen in the high anterolateral segment. A further fixed perfusion defect is seen in the inferoapical wall extending from close to the septum. There is no evidence for active ischemia in either distribution. Lateral wall moving towards the apex of the left ventricle is further involved from midway through the ventricle moving upward and into the high anterolateral vicinity. When viewed from the vertical projection, the high septal wall is preserved with significant loss of the mid anteroapical wall moving to the apex and in a wraparound fashion in the inferoapical wall. A limited segment of apical myocardium is still viable.No gated wall motion study was obtained.CONCLUSIONS: Cardiolite perfusion findings support multivessel coronary artery disease and likely previous multivessel infarct as has been elaborated above. There is no indication for active ischemia at this time."
"PROCEDURE PERFORMED: DDDR permanent pacemaker.INDICATION: Tachybrady syndrome.PROCEDURE: After all risks, benefits, and alternatives of the procedure were explained in detail to the patient, informed consent was obtained both verbally and in writing. The patient was taken to the Cardiac Catheterization Suite where the right subclavian region was prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion. 1% lidocaine solution was used to infiltrate the skin overlying the left subclavian vein. Once adequate anesthesia had been obtained, a thin-walled #18-gauze Argon needle was used to cannulate the left subclavian vein. A steel guidewire was inserted through the needle into the vascular lumen without resistance. The needle was then removed over the guidewire and the guidewire was secured to the field. A second #18 gauze Argon needle was used to cannulate the left subclavian vein and once again a steel guidewire was inserted through the needle into the vascular lumen. Likewise, the needle was removed over the guidewire and the guidewire was then secured to the field. Next, a #15-knife blade was used to make a 1 to 1.5 inch linear incision over the area. A #11-knife blade was used to make a deeper incision. Hemostasis was made complete. The edges of the incision were grasped and retracted. Using Metzenbaum scissors, dissection was carried down to the pectoralis muscle fascial plane. Digital blunt dissection was used to make a pacemaker pocket large enough to accommodate the pacemaker generator. Metzenbaum scissors were then used to dissect cephalad to expose the guide wires. The guidewires were then pulled through the pacemaker pocket. One guidewire was secured to the field.A bloodless introducer sheath was then advanced over a guidewire into the vascular lumen under fluoroscopic guidance. The guidewire and dilator were then removed. Next, a ventricular pacemaker lead was advanced through the sheath and into the vascular lumen and under fluoroscopic guidance guided down into the right atrium. The pacemaker lead was then placed in the appropriate position in the right ventricle. Pacing and sensing thresholds were obtained. The lead was sewn at the pectoralis muscle plane using #2-0 silk suture in an interrupted stitch fashion around the ________. Pacing and sensing threshold were then reconfirmed. Next, a second bloodless introducer sheath was advanced over the second guidewire into the vascular lumen. The guidewire and dilator were then removed. Under fluoroscopic guidance, the atrial lead was passed into the right atrium. The sheath was then turned away in standard fashion. Using fluoroscopic guidance, the atrial lead was then placed in the appropriate position. Pacing and sensing thresholds were obtained. The lead was sewn to the pectoralis muscle facial plane utilizing #2-0 silk suture around the ________. Sensing and pacing thresholds were then reconfirmed. The leads were wiped free of blood and placed into the pacemaker generator. The pacemaker generator leads were then placed into pocket with the leads posteriorly. The deep tissues were closed utilizing #2-0 Chromic suture in an interrupted stitch fashion. A #4-0 undyed Vicryl was then used to close the subcutaneous tissue in a continuous subcuticular stitch. Steri-Strips overlaid. A sterile gauge dressing was placed over the site. The patient tolerated the procedure well and was transferred to the Cardiac Catheterization Room in stable and satisfactory condition.PACEMAKER DATA (GENERATOR DATA):Manufacturer: Medtronics.Model: Sigma.Model #: 1234.Serial #: 123456789.LEAD INFORMATION:Right Atrial Lead:Manufacturer: Medtronics.Model #: 1234.Serial #: 123456789.VENTRICULAR LEAD:Manufacturer: Medtronics.Model #: 1234.Serial #: 123456789.PACING AND SENSING THRESHOLDS:Right Atrial Bipolar Lead: Pulse width 0.50 milliseconds, impedance 518 ohms, P-wave sensing 2.2 millivolts, polarity is bipolar.Ventricular Bipolar Lead: Pulse width 0.50 milliseconds, voltage 0.7 volts, current 1.5 milliamps, impedance 655 ohms, R-wave sensing 9.7 millivolts, polarity is bipolar.PARAMETER SETTINGS: Pacing mode DDDR: Mode switch is on, low rate 60, upper 120, ________ is 33.0 milliseconds.IMPRESSION: Successful implantation of DDDR permanent pacemaker.PLAN:1. The patient will be monitored on telemetry for 24 hours to ensure adequate pacemaker function.2. The patient will be placed on antibiotics for five days to avoid pacemaker infection."
"CLINICAL HISTORY: This 78-year-old black woman has a history of hypertension, but no other cardiac problems. She noted complaints of fatigue, lightheadedness, and severe dyspnea on exertion. She was evaluated by her PCP on January 31st and her ECG showed sinus bradycardia with a rate of 37 beats per minute. She has had intermittent severe sinus bradycardia alternating with a normal sinus rhythm, consistent with sinoatrial exit block, and she is on no medications known to cause bradycardia. An echocardiogram showed an ejection fraction of 70% without significant valvular heart disease.PROCEDURE: Implantation of a dual chamber permanent pacemaker.APPROACH: Left cephalic vein.LEADS IMPLANTED: Medtronic model 12345 in the right atrium, serial number 12345. Medtronic 12345 in the right ventricle, serial number 12345.DEVICE IMPLANTED: Medtronic EnRhythm model 12345, serial number 12345.LEAD PERFORMANCE: Atrial threshold less than 1.3 volts at 0.5 milliseconds. P wave 3.3 millivolts. Impedance 572 ohms. Right ventricle threshold 0.9 volts at 0.5 milliseconds. R wave 10.3. Impedance 855.ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: 20 mL.COMPLICATIONS: None.DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: The patient was brought to the electrophysiology laboratory in a fasting state and intravenous sedation was provided as needed with Versed and fentanyl. The left neck and chest were prepped and draped in the usual manner and the skin and subcutaneous tissues below the left clavicle were infiltrated with 1% lidocaine for local anesthesia. A 2-1/2-inch incision was made below the left clavicle and electrocautery was used for hemostasis. Dissection was carried out to the level of the pectoralis fascia and extended caudally to create a pocket for the pulse generator. The deltopectoral groove was explored and a medium-sized cephalic vein was identified. The distal end of the vein was ligated and a venotomy was performed. Two guide wires were advanced to the superior vena cava and peel-away introducer sheaths were used to insert the two pacing leads. The venous pressures were elevated and there was a fair amount of back-bleeding from the vein, so a 3-0 Monocryl figure-of-eight stitch was placed around the tissue surrounding the vein for hemostasis. The right ventricular lead was placed in the high RV septum and the right atrial lead was placed in the right atrial appendage. The leads were tested with a pacing systems analyzer and the results are noted above. The leads were then anchored in place with #0-silk around their suture sleeve and connected to the pulse generator. The pacemaker was noted to function appropriately. The pocket was then irrigated with antibiotic solution and the pacemaker system was placed in the pocket. The incision was closed with two layers of 3-0 Monocryl and a subcuticular closure of 4-0 Monocryl. The incision was dressed with Steri-Strips and a sterile bandage and the patient was returned to her room in good condition.IMPRESSION: Successful implantation of a dual chamber permanent pacemaker via the left cephalic vein. The patient will be observed overnight and will go home in the morning."
"PREPROCEDURE DIAGNOSIS: Complete heart block.POSTPROCEDURE DIAGNOSIS: Complete heart block.PROCEDURES PLANNED AND PERFORMED1. Implantation of a dual-chamber pacemaker.2. Fluoroscopic guidance for implantation of a dual-chamber pacemaker.FLUOROSCOPY TIME: 2.6 minutes.MEDICATIONS AT THE TIME OF STUDY1. Versed 2.5 mg.2. Fentanyl 150 mcg.3. Benadryl 50 mg.CLINICAL HISTORY: the patient is a pleasant 80-year-old female who presented to the hospital with complete heart block. She has been referred for a pacemaker implantation.RISKS AND BENEFITS: Risks, benefits, and alternatives to implantation of a dual-chamber pacemaker were discussed with the patient. The patient agreed both verbally and via written consent.DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: The patient was transported to the cardiac catheterization laboratory in the fasting state. The region of the left deltopectoral groove was prepped and draped in the usual sterile manner. Lidocaine 1% (20 mL) was administered to the area. After achieving appropriate anesthesia, percutaneous access of the left axillary vein was then performed under fluoroscopy. A guide wire was advanced into the vein. Following this, a 4-inch long transverse incision was made through the skin and subcutaneous tissue exposing the pectoral fascia and muscle beneath. Hemostasis was achieved with electrocautery. Lidocaine 1% (10 mL) was then administered to the medial aspect of the incision. A pocket was then fashioned in the medial direction. Using the previously placed wire, a 7-French side-arm sheath was advanced over the wire into the left axillary vein. The dilator was then removed over the wire. A second wire was then advanced into the sheath into the left axillary vein. The sheath was then removed over the top of the two wires. One wire was then pinned to the drape. Using the remaining wire, a 7 French side-arm sheath was advanced back into the left axillary vein. The dilator and wire were removed. A passive pacing lead was then advanced down into the right atrium. The peel-away sheath was removed. The lead was then passed across the tricuspid valve and positioned in the apical location. Adequate pacing and sensing functions were established. Suture sleeve was advanced to the entry point of the tissue and connected securely to the tissue. With the remaining wire, a 7-French side-arm sheath was advanced over the wire into the axillary vein. The wire and dilating sheaths were removed. An active pacing lead was then advanced down into the right atrium. The peel-away sheath was removed. Preformed J stylet was then advanced into the lead. The lead was positioned in the appendage location. Lead body was then turned, and the active fix screw was fixed to the tissue. Adequate pacing and sensing function were established. Suture sleeve was advanced to the entry point of the tissue and connected securely to the tissue. The pocket was then washed with antibiotic-impregnated saline. Pulse generator was obtained and connected securely to the leads. The leads were then carefully wrapped behind the pulse generator, and the entire system was placed in the pocket. The pocket was then closed with 2-0, 3-0, and 4-0 Vicryl using a running mattress stitch. Sponge and needle counts were correct at the end of the procedure. No acute complications were noted.DEVICE DATA1. Pulse generator, manufacturer Boston Scientific, model # 12345, serial #1234.2. Right atrial lead, manufacturer Guidant, model #12345, serial #1234.3. Right ventricular lead, manufacturer Guidant, model #12345, serial #1234.MEASURED INTRAOPERATIVE DATA1. Right atrial lead impedance 534 ohms. P waves measured at 1.2 millivolts. Pacing threshold 1.0 volt at 0.5 milliseconds.2. Right ventricular lead impedance 900 ohms. R-waves measured 6.0 millivolts. Pacing threshold 1.0 volt at 0.5 milliseconds.DEVICE SETTINGS: DDD 60 to 130.CONCLUSIONS1. Successful implantation of a dual-chamber pacemaker with adequate pacing and sensing function.2. No acute complications.PLAN1. The patient will be taken back to her room for continued observation. She can be dismissed in 24 hours provided no acute complications at the discretion of the primary service.2. Chest x-ray to rule out pneumothorax and verified lead position.3. Completion of the course of antibiotics.4. Home dismissal instructions provided in written format.5. Device interrogation in the morning.6. Wound check in 7 to 10 days.7. Enrollment in device clinic."
"SINGLE CHAMBER PACEMAKER IMPLANTATIONPREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Mobitz type II block with AV dissociation and syncope.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Mobitz type II block, status post single chamber pacemaker implantation, Boston Scientific Altrua 60, serial number 123456.PROCEDURES:1. Left subclavian access under fluoroscopic guidance.2. Left subclavian venogram under fluoroscopic evaluation.3. Insertion of ventricular lead through left subclavian approach and ventricular lead is Boston Scientific Dextrose model 12345, serial number 123456.4. Insertion of single-chamber pacemaker implantation, Altrua, serial number 123456.5. Closure of the pocket after formation of pocket for pacemaker.PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: The procedure was explained to the patient with risks and benefits. The patient agreed and signed the consent form. The patient was brought to the cath lab, draped and prepped in the usual sterile fashion, received 1.5 mg of versed and 25 mg of Benadryl for conscious sedation.Access to the right subclavian was successful after the second attempt. The first attempt accessed the left subclavian artery. The needle was removed and manual compression applied for five minutes followed by re-accessing the subclavian vein successfully. The J-wire was introduced into the left subclavian vein.The anterior wall chest was anesthetized with lidocaine 2%, 2-inch incision using a #10 blade was used.The pocket was formed using blunt dissection as he was using the Bovie cautery for hemostasis. The patient went asystole during the procedure. The transcutaneous pacer was used. The patient was oxygenating well. The patient had several compression applied by the nurse. However, her own rhythm resolved spontaneously and the percutaneous pacer was kept on standby.After that, the J-wire was tunneled into the pocket and then used to put the #7-French sheath into the left subclavian vein. The lead from the Boston Scientific Dextrose model 12345, serial number 12345 was inserted through the left subclavian to the right atrium; however, it was difficult to really enter the right ventricle; and while the lead was in place, the side port of the sheath was used to inject 15 mL of contrast to assess the subclavian and the right atrium. The findings were showing different anatomy, may be consistent with persistent left superior vena cava, and the angle to the right ventricle was different. At that point, the lead stylet was reshaped and was able to cross the tricuspid valve in a position consistent with the mid septal place.At that point, the lead was actively fixated. The stylet was removed. The R-wave measured at 40 millivolts. The impedance was 580 and the threshold was 1.3 volt. The numbers were accepted and because of the patient's fragility and the different anatomy noticed in the right atrium, concern about putting a second lead with re-access of the subclavian was high. I decided to proceed with a single-chamber pacemaker as a backup system.After that, the lead sleeve was used to actively fixate the lead in the anterior chest with two Ethibond sutures in the usual fashion.The lead was attached to the pacemaker in the header. The pacemaker was single-chamber pacemaker Altura 60, serial number 123456. After that, the pacemaker was put in the pocket. Pocket was irrigated with normal saline and was closed into two layers, deep interrupted #3-0 Vicryl and surface as continuous #4-0 Vicryl continuous.The pacemaker was programmed as VVI 60, and with history is 10 to 50 beats per minute. The lead position will be evaluated with chest x-ray.No significant bleeding noticed.CONCLUSION: Successful single-chamber pacemaker implantation with left subclavian approach and venogram to assess the subclavian access site and the right atrial or right ventricle with asystole that resolved spontaneously during the procedure. No significant bleed."
"REFERRAL INDICATION1. Tachybrady syndrome.2. Chronic atrial fibrillation.PROCEDURES PLANNED AND PERFORMED1. Implantation of a single-chamber pacemaker.2. Fluoroscopic guidance for implantation of single-chamber pacemaker.FLUOROSCOPY TIME: 1.2 minutes.MEDICATIONS AT THE TIME OF STUDY1. Ancef 1 g.2. Benadryl 50 mg.3. Versed 3 mg.4. Fentanyl 150 mcg.CLINICAL HISTORY: The patient is a pleasant 73-year-old female with chronic atrial fibrillation. She has been found to have tachybrady syndrome, has been referred for pacemaker implantation.RISKS AND BENEFITS: Risks, benefits, and alternatives of implantation of a single-chamber pacemaker were discussed with the patient. The patient agreed both verbally and via written consent. Risks that were discussed included but were not limited to bleeding, infection, vascular injury, cardiac perforation, stroke, myocardial infarction, need for urgent cardiovascular surgery, and death were discussed with the patient. The patient agreed both verbally and via written consent.DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: The patient was transported to the cardiac catheterization laboratory in a fasting state. The region of the left deltopectoral groove was prepped and draped in the usual sterile manner. Lidocaine 1% (20 mL) was administered to the area. Percutaneous access of the left axillary vein was then performed. A wire was then advanced in the left axillary vein using fluoroscopy. Following this, a 4-inch long transverse incision was made through the skin and subcutaneous tissue exposing the pectoral fascia and muscle beneath. Lidocaine 1% (10 mL) was then administered to the medial aspect of the incision and a pocket was fashioned in the medial direction. Using the previously placed guidewire, a 7-French sidearm sheath was advanced over the wire into the vein. The dilator and wire were removed. An active pacing lead was then advanced down in the right atrium. The peel-away sheath was removed. Lead was passed across the tricuspid valve and positioned in an apical septal location. This was an active fixed lead and the screw was deployed. Adequate pacing and sensing function were established. The suture sleeve was then advanced to the entry point of the tissue and connected securely to the tissue. The pocket was washed with antibiotic-impregnated saline. A pulse generator was obtained and connected securely to the lead. The lead was then carefully wrapped behind the pulse generator, and the entire system was placed in the pocket. Pocket was then closed with 2-0, 3-0, and 4-0 Vicryl using a running mattress stitch. No acute complications were noted.DEVICE DATA1. Pulse generator, manufacturer St. Jude model 12345, serial #123456.2. Right ventricular lead, manufacturer St. Jude model 12345, serial #ABCD123456.MEASURED INTRAOPERATIVE DATA: Right ventricular lead impedance 630 ohms. R wave measures 17.5 mV. Pacing threshold of 0.8 V at 0.5 msec.DEVICE SETTINGS: VVI 70 to 120.CONCLUSIONS1. Successful implantation of the single-chamber pacemaker with adequate pacing and sensing function.2. No acute complications.PLAN1. The patient will be admitted for overnight observation and dismissed at the discretion of primary service.2. Chest x-ray to rule out pneumothorax and verify lead position.3. Completion of course of antibiotics.4. Device interrogation in the morning.5. Home dismissal instructions provided in a written format.6. Wound check in 7 to 10 days.7. Enrollment in Device Clinic."
